Equity
[music]
investors care about corporate earnings.
>> The stocks are a little overheated here
going into earning season.
>> We're risk right now as we start 2026.
>> The markets, I think, have correctly
gravitated to the positive fundamentals.
>> You're just going to have a more
sensitive market. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with [music] Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, coming off all-time highs,
equity markets shaking off the politics,
putting together back-to-back records.
As JP Morgan is kicking off [music]
earning season for the big banks on Wall
Street, economists are waiting for the
latest read on inflation. While the door
is closing on another rate cut,
>> we get the December CPI [music] coming
out at 8:30 a.m. Eastern. And to me,
this is going to be the key moment of
the morning in part because what we have
gotten over [music] the previous two
readings was so messy and people are
wondering whether you get sort of a
rebound effect here. [music] If you do
get a more robust inflation read, does
that put the kaibos on some of the
complacency that we're seeing in the
markets because it really reintroduces
[music] Fed rate risk at a time when the
Fed is very much in the hot seat?
>> JP Morgan is saying no more rate cards
for the rest of this year. You were in
the room with the New York Fed President
John Williams [music] just yesterday.
He's not signaling anything anytime
soon.
>> No. And when it comes to inflation, he
[music] thinks it's going to about be
two and 3/4% to 3% peaking this year and
then next year he says we're going to
hit our target of [music] 2% and also
sounding very optimistic about the path
of the US economy. Then he spoke to
reporters yesterday. Mike [music] McKe
was in that little huddle and he said
that he didn't think there was quote
strong pressure one way or another to do
anything when it comes to [music]
monetary policy. So basically the door
is really closing for a rate cut this
month. Inflation data 8:30 Eastern time.
Before we get to that, we've got some
earnings to talk about. Delta Airlines
in the mix. JP Morgan later this hour.
The bank stocks have been on an absolute
[music]
tear. Last year up by 29% the year
before up by 33. Part of these gains is
the reason why the bar [music] has
gotten so high and the reason why people
are not looking for how high the net
interest income is going to be or what
[music] the projection is for the full
year, but how worried they are about
credit card fee caps and whether they're
going to talk about the politics of the
moment and how that can potentially
restrain their business model. [music]
Why are we putting disproportionate
focus on this? Because ultimately they
have been given a silver platter to
deregulate, [music]
to do well, to compete better with some
of these asset managers. Suddenly the
president who actually gave them all
these things is starting to give a sense
that [music] maybe he's going to take
the punch pull away and that's what
people want to hear about.
>> And the president calling Senator
Elizabeth Warren, you know, when you
have moments [music] like these when
populist policies are rising to the
front, you have in politics very unusual
bedfellows. Well, here is one. Elizabeth
Warren [music] and Donald Trump are
trying to work together to cap credit
card interest rates [music] at 10%. I
cannot wait to hear what Mr. Diamond has
to say about that. I think we can go one
step further. Need to talk about the
politics of low hiring as well. You hear
a lot about productivity. These banks
squeezing out more revenue [music] from
fewer and fewer potentially employees.
That's going to get more and more
complicated [music] as the years go by.
More and more complicated politically
and perhaps for the bottom line.
>> And this is the era of job cut
announcements. We saw that from [music]
Croup yesterday coming out saying that
they were going to cut about a thousand
jobs. BlackRock also announcing [music]
some efficiencies of scale. How do these
big companies message this? At a time of
that low, higher, lowf fire dynamic,
this is normally the time when these
layoff announcements do come. [music]
But efficiency has a very different
tenor in the era of AI.
>> There's always something to worry about.
Stocks record highs on the S&P 500 at
the close yesterday. This morning,
[music] down by not even 210 of 1%.
Coming up this hour, Max Kenner of HSBC
with stocks at all-time highs. Former
House Financial Services Committee Chair
Patrick Mckenry on the Fed drama and
Jara Cassley joins us from RBC as JP
Morgan kicks off bank earnings later
this hour. We begin this hour with
stocks close to record highs ahead of
bank earnings and the latest inflation
print. Max Kentner of HSBC seeing upside
ahead writing this. Here's the quote.
There's little we can see to deter us
from our almost maximum bullish stance
on equities and our broad-based risk on
stance in our tactical asset allocation.
Max joins us now for more. Max, welcome
to the program. bullish, very very
bullish. What's behind and what anchors
that very bullish view?
>> Yeah, good morning John. I think the
next bullish catalyst is probably what
uh you guys has just been talking about
the earning season. When we look at the
reporting season expectations for the US
large caps, they are actually down
sequentially. Consensus is expecting a
sequential decline, a quarter
overquarter decline in earnings. And in
fact, when you strip out tech, that is
more than a 5% decline in earnings
expectations. and bottom-up earnings
expectations. You know, Conensus says
eight of the 11 uh S&P sectors will
decline in terms of earnings quarter
over quarter. So, with such a very very
low bar to beat with such a setup in
terms of earnings expectations, there is
a very decent chance that even the
really high earnings beat rates that
we've seen in the last two quarters will
perhaps also be exceeded once again now
in Q4 that we might see an even better
earning season this time around. And
that really from an earnings perspective
should again give us the next sort of
bullish catalyst in terms of upside I
think particularly for not only equities
but really for risk assets more broadly.
>> Max that earnings pillar is that enough
to insulate this equity market from the
headline bombs coming from the White
House of the last week or so from the
populist twist in a midterm year?
Yeah, I think it is because uh let's be
honest when we look at the last 8 months
I think the last 8 months since
liberation day since the first U-turn
from the US administration I think what
we should have learned is how little
actually the geopolitics and the
political side of things matters for the
headline indices right it might matter
for some regional allocation let's say
within emerging market debt or within
emerging market equities fine but from a
headline asset class basis it actually
really doesn't matter that much. What
matters and what mattered the last 8
months was that the earning speed rates
in years large caps were the highest
since co what mattered that the Fed was
still cutting rates that we had a bit
more disinflation coming through that
the Fed was comfortable with cutting
rates more that was allowing rates vault
FX vault to decline further that was
allowing the dollar to stay pent down
that did allow then emerging market
rates emerging market equities to rally
what did matter was the AI story the AI
capex story that the capix estimates got
revised higher even more. So what I
would say when we look at the the
politics and the geopolitical side of
things. I think in the last eight months
what we really should have focused
instead of the politics we really should
have focused on the numbers instead and
those numbers when we again when we look
at the Q4 reporting season with that
setup with such a low bar to beat I
think that's a really really good setup
to continue ignoring the politics. Max,
the politics is part of the earning
story though and this has to do with the
green light that we've seen from the
White House to go explore and develop as
much AI capabilities as possible and
frankly the deregulatory push that we've
seen when it comes to big uh finance.
So, at what point are you worried that
that politics will take the punch bowl
away in the face of a lot of changes
when it comes to a focus on
affordability?
Yeah, I don't think that's quite the
time yet because let's let's remember
what's happening now in terms of the
politics and in terms of again the
numbers the actual impact for growth
whether that's on the earnings or on the
top down side we're probably going to
see the biggest positive fiscal impulse
now in the first quarter with the tax
reimbursements coming in February and
April you know you were just talking
about the deregulatory stance of course
uh some of the uh OBBB uh capex
incentives that is also very positive
for AI that might also to lead to
another upward revision of hyperscalers
capex plans. Again, all of that is
pretty positive. Where I start to
perhaps be a little bit more concerned
is when we talk not about 2026, but when
we talk a little bit further out when we
go from 2026 to 2027, is there a risk
that from 2026 to 2027 perhaps the delta
and AI capex and hyperscala capex is
starting to be negative? That the fiscal
impulse which is hugely positive now is
starting to be negative. that maybe if
even if the Fed cuts rates, you know,
maybe we're going to start pricing in
some rate hikes next year. So all the
tailwinds, whether that's monetary,
fiscal, whether that's on the capex
side, all of these tailwinds perhaps
from 26 to 27 start to turn into
headwinds. Now, are we going to price
that now? No. Is that perhaps a second
half story? Yeah. So around the summer,
I think that's when we really genuinely
need to be a bit more concerned from an
earnings and from a growth perspective.
But until then, it's full throttle risk
on.
>> Max, I'm having a hard time getting to
the end of January, let alone 2027. So,
let's just talk about what happens at
the end of January when we do get a Fed
rate decision and what could potentially
happen as a result of some of the
politicization that we've seen with the
subpoena that the Fed chair received
over the Eckles building and some of the
renovations there. I'm just wondering at
what point it's a risk case for you with
some of the max bullishness. Uh if the
Fed does not cut rates or if the Fed
only cuts once versus the two to three
times currently priced into the market
as a result of some of what we've seen
over the past 36 hours.
>> Yeah, I think that is the risk, right?
The risk really is on the rate side. So
the the real earnings or or slow um
growth slowdown risk is the 26 to 27
story. Until then, the bigger sort of
tactical risk is what happens if
treasury yields start to rise too much,
start to rise, maybe the velocity of the
increase is too strong or the level is
just too high for uh equities and really
for risk asset valuations to stomach
that overall. Now, is that already an
issue right now? No. But the higher
obviously the more we go higher in the
long end, the more we don't push out
rate cuts like we're doing right now. We
sort of pushed them out from January to
April. we now pushing them towards the
second half of the year. As long as
there's one and a half, two cuts in the
price over the next 6 to 12 months,
that's totally fine. But again, I don't
think it's really that much related to
the subpoenas or to the DOJ, it's much
more related to the inflation and to the
labor market story. If for example the
January and the February CPI or labor
market data tells us look the
unemployment rate is suddenly no longer
at 440 from the 460 that was anyway
revised but suddenly it's going to be
420 410 and maybe we get one or two
inflation prints that are hotter. Then
suddenly even the long end moves higher
and that is then brings us a bit of a
whiff of 2022 where really the only
hedges is long dollar a bit of
shortdated credit maybe value overgrowth
and equities but it's really an
environment where then all asset classes
suffer from higher rate expectations. Is
that something for the next four weeks?
Nope. Because for uh uh this week for
the CPI all the casts actually do point
more to a bit of a softer print. So it's
not an issue I think for until the end
of January. It's probably only in a
month and a half, perhaps only towards
March.
>> Max, though, if the investigation gets
more aggressive into Jerome Powell,
Standard Charter had this to say this
morning. Buy on the subpoena, sell on
the indictment. Is that how you would
view financial markets?
>> Not at all. To be honest, I I I sort of
ignore it because for me, yeah, it's a
bit of a it's a bit of a risk for the
very long end, but to me, it's not
really the big one. Again what we've
what we really should have learned even
last week you know we started the year
with Venezuela we then had Iran we had
all these geopolitical concerns now we
wake up on Monday you know when you look
at equities you look at IG spreads you
look at high yield spreads or you look
at emerging market look at all the vol
measures look at VIX look at rates FXV
you would barely know that these sorts
of things have happened in the last week
and a half so from a market perspective
I just don't really think they're enough
to deter really the earnings the
corporate strength we have the margin
strength. We have look at the margin
strength of large cap. Look at the the
uh divergence between mega cap large cap
uh uh profitability right now in the US
and the overall economic or economywide
margins which is anyway already strong
in the US. But the large caps come on
top of that. None of those things that
we've been just talking about are really
going to impact that meaningfully.
>> Max Ker of HSBC out of London this
morning. Max, appreciate your time as
always. We're talking about the
impressive stability of the US bond
market. We should stress the US bond
market which is notable against the
backdrop of what's happening elsewhere.
Not just the drama in Washington, but
developments in Japan as we've seen
reports over the weekend and coming into
this week about a snap election by
Takichi and these moves. Nikk225
equities rallying aggressively, but it's
the move in bonds and foreign exchange
that really gets your attention. 10-year
government bond yields in Japan up by
close to eight basis points.
>> Yeah. And what some people are
suggesting is it's really going to take
an act by the Bank of Japan to come in
and stabilize this market because we
have seen this selloff continue. You see
the yen at the weakest versus the dollar
since July 2024. Why? Because evidently
people worry about the deficit over in
Japan. They worry about growth
especially given how low rates have been
and it raises a question of who the
ultimate buyer for the United States
will be. I am watching Japan for
>> Yeah. If you're worried about rates
breaking out, sure it's not happening in
the US, it's happening elsewhere.
Exactly. And that combination of yen
weakness, six days of it now, together
with higher bond yields should concern
Japanese policy makers.
>> Yeah. Which is the reason why Takayichi
has really taken a hands-off approach
with the Bank of Japan. The whole idea
of central bank independence is very
important there to try to get
credibility. Whether it's working or not
will remain to be seen because
ultimately it does also depend on the
fundamentals there.
>> Dian just short of 159. For the broader
equity market here, states side equities
a little bit softer. We're down a tenth
of 1% later this hour. numbers from JP
Morgan, earnings from Delta Airlines.
With an update on news worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief, let's cross over
to Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Good morning, John and thank you.
[music] Donald Trump vowing to impose a
25% tariff on goods from any country
doing business with Iran. The president
posting on Truth Social. The new duty
[music] is quote effective immediately.
The move could disrupt major US trading
relationships, countries [music]
including India, Turkey, and China.
Global central and bankers are throwing
their support behind Fed chair Jerome
Powell amid increased [music] pressure
from the Trump administration on Powell.
Central banks including the ECB and BOE
said they quote stand in full solidarity
with the Federal Reserve and the [music]
chair. Their support comes after the Fed
was served grand jury subpoenas from the
DOJ threatening a criminal indictment.
UBS CEO Sergio Armati planning to step
down in April [music] of 2027. According
to the Financial Times, the FT reporting
the board has yet to finalize his exit.
Herati had said in 2024 he planned to
stay at the helm of the bank [music]
until it completed the integration of
credit Swiss which could be done by the
end of this year or early next year.
[music] And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Vonnie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Vonnie later this
hour. [music] Up next, investigating the
Fed chair. The president's made it quite
clear. Is Jerome Powell is bad at his
job? As for whether or not or not Jerome
Powell is a criminal, that's an answer
the Department of Justice is going to
have to find out.
>> In just a moment, we'll catch up with
the former House Financial Services
Committee Chair Patrick [music] Mckenry,
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[music]
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. What an hour
we've got coming up. earnings from Delta
Airlines, from JP Morgan, and then a few
hours away, we'll get an inflation print
at 8:30 Eastern time. So, look out for
that through the [music] next 24 hours
or so. And if you want a little bit
extra, the president speaking later this
afternoon, I believe 2 p.m. Eastern
time.
>> Yep. He'll be touring a plant [music] in
Michigan. And then speaking at the
Economic Club of Detroit last night, he
talked about electricity being a big
issue. [music] We are once again in an
election year. So you're going to hear a
lot more, I'm sure, of ideas thrown at
the wall that are very [music] populous,
very similar to we heard when he was
campaigning in 202.
>> We've seen quite a few of them in the
first two weeks [music] of the year at
least. For the equity market, doing
okay. Back-to-back all-time highs on the
S&P 500 this morning, down by a tenth of
[music] 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ down
by 0.3. Under surveillance this morning,
investigating the Fed chair.
>> The president has every right to
criticize the Fed chair. uh he has a
first amendment right just like all of
you do and one thing for sure the
president's made it quite clear is
Jerome Powell is bad at his job interest
rates should be lowered as for whether
or not or not Jerome Powell is a
criminal that's an answer the department
of justice is going to have to find out
and it looks like they intend to find
that out
>> so here's the latest this morning the
white house facing growing backlash from
Republican lawmakers after the DOJ
threatened the Federal Reserve with a
criminal indictment joining us now is
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall Tyler a lot of
people on Capitol Hill pushing
Right. Exactly, John. And good morning.
There is this growing list of
Republicans seemingly coming to Fed
Chair Jerome Powell's defense.
Yesterday, we spoke about one key one
that's retiring Senator Tom Tillis,
North Carolina, who sits on the Senate
Banking Committee and is threatening to
block any of President Trump's Federal
Reserve nominees, and he really could.
Republicans only have a 1311 majority on
the panel, which means that he could
stall any nomination from getting to the
full floor. Then we got some perhaps
more measured responses from two other
Republicans on Senate banking. That
includes Steve McCormack of
Pennsylvania, Kevin Kramer of North
Carolina of North Dakota. Both of whom
said that they do not think that Powell
committed a crime. The House Financial
Services Chair French Hill who you see
there said that he thought that this was
an unnecessary distraction. Now, those
are the two committees we watched
because they have the primary oversight
of the Fed. But we did hear from some
other lawmakers as well, including
Senate Majority Leader John Thun, who
said that he hopes that this process is
wrapped up quickly and nodded to the
fact that it could slow the nomination
process. And then also worth mentioning,
it appears that Powell spoke directly to
some lawmakers after Senator Susan
Collins Maine and Lisa Marowski of
Alaska both said that they had
one-on-one conversations with him in the
past few days. Now, as you heard, the
White House is maintaining that
President Trump did not have knowledge
of nor ordered this investigation as a
person familiar with the matter tells us
here at Bloomberg News that the US
Attorney General for the District of
Columbia, Janine Apiro, green lit these
subpoenas without seeking prior approval
from her bosses at the Department of
Justice. Our reporting indicates that
she plans to forge ahead with the
investigation after she posted on X
yesterday claiming that her office
reached out to the Federal Reserve
multiple times with a request for
information but did not hear back. John,
very quickly, the broader political
context. To keep in mind here is that
this is just the latest in what has been
a series of moves of Republicans on
Capitol Hill going against the
administration. In the last week, we saw
the Senate advance a war powers
resolution in Venezuela, curbing
President Trump's authority there and
the House advance a plan to extend the
Affordable Care Act premium subsidies
that have expired and the White House
didn't want to see.
>> Tyler Kendall down in Washington. Tyler,
thank you. More from Tyler in the next
hour. This from Axios in the last 24
hours on Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson. Here's the quote. The secretary
isn't happy. He let the president know.
>> This is something that people keep
talking about. His concern was that it
was going to royal markets. It would be
counterproductive and it would actually
make it more difficult for them to
nominate someone who would be more Trump
friendly to the Federal Reserve, which
seems to be exactly what is happening.
>> Joining us now is Patrick Mckenry, the
former chair of the House Financial
Services Committee. Patrick, welcome to
the program. This pursuit of the Federal
Reserve, does it introduce some
financial stability risk?
>> Clearly. Um, and this is the reason why
you're reporting we just heard about
Secretary Bessant uh telling the
president directly his displeasure. Uh
look, the substance of the question here
is whether or not the the chair of the
Federal Reserve lied before Congress and
what I would tell you is having
experienced uh multiple uh dozens of of
testimonies by uh various Fed chairs,
the Fed chair coming to Congress is the
most most briefed person that appears
before Congress, period. The briefing
book uh is the is really the the
question here, not the Fed chair. Was
the briefing book appropriately uh
written to answer members of Congress
questions about the building project? I
believe it was. And the the amount of
discipline the Fed puts into ensuring
they have an accurate briefing book uh
for the Fed chair, for any Fed chair. Um
and and I think that's the missing
nuance of this story. Um but there is no
nuance here. The the president's
flooding the zone on economic issues to
open the year. We're going to see a
whole lot more of this in the coming
weeks, but he's coming out guns ablazing
uh with both progressive uh populist uh
and conservative and market shaking
ideas all in one week.
>> Patrick, you spent a ton of time with
the Fed chair. Actually, he has a ton of
political capital on the capital. He
spent a lot of time with Republicans and
Democrats. Do you think that that's what
we're seeing played out right now? all
those meetings he has taken, all the
political capital he put into going into
meeting senators and meeting House
members. When you hear Senator like
Kennedy saying we need this like we need
a hole in the head, it sounds like they
are upset with what the DOJ is doing.
>> Yes. Uh and that is exactly what you're
seeing that that is this is this is why
you we got to listen and watch Bloomberg
because this is the type of nuance you
need to understand. Uh the Fed chair
puts a an enormous amount of time each
week into ensuring his relationships
around uh Washington DC. I'm the
beneficiary of that uh with the last
four Fed chairs uh in my service in
Congress. Um and it means that if
there's a jump ball, you give them the
benefit of the doubt because you have a
relationship with them and you know
them. That's the goal. It doesn't always
work. The outreach doesn't always work.
doesn't mean you have a good
relationship, but at the very least, the
the Fed chair and all Fed chairs have
put a lot of effort into ensuring they
have relationships on the hill that they
have uh they have uh political capital
in the tank so that when times get
sideways or bad, uh they will uh they
will defend you or be helpful to you. Uh
and this is a moment where where uh you
you see uh that um JP pal has put an
enormous amount of uh equity that he's
built up on the hill in both the House
and Senate side both with rep
Republicans and Democrats.
>> Some market participants say that
because of what is going on he's going
to stay on the Federal Reserve in his
governor seat till 2028. If he were to
do that, do you think Republicans will
actually view that move as him being
basically not withholding up to the
independence of the Fed because it's
very non-traditional for a Fed chair to
do so?
>> Well, it's a term of office, number one,
and number two, a tradition that former
uh chairs roll off the Fed board. Uh
it's a good practice for former Fed
chairs to to roll off the board. it it
allows their successor the time and
runway to to get up to speed. Uh but in
this case, the these are these are I I
would say at this at this phase uh
threats uh to to counterbalance the the
president and the department of
justice's threats here. Um and that
shows that JPAL is not powerless in this
situation. The Federal Reserve is not
powerless in this situation. Uh that's
one element of it. The other ele element
of it is it that is clearly saying to
the White House, think of your nominees.
Think of your nominees that have to go
before Capitol Hill in this context. And
I think this means that the president's
first nominee uh to be chair of the
Federal Reserve is going to have one
heck of a time uh dealing uh with
members of Congress given this context
of DOJ intervention.
>> Patrick, it's good to see you. Thanks
for making time for us. Patrick Mckenry
there, the former House Financial
Services Committee chair on the Federal
Reserve and a decent argument that if
the Federal Reserve is going to lower
interest rates, the president's making
it harder, not easier.
>> That's what you saw at least in initial
markets until you had all the commentary
saying from all of the other
Republicans, eh, maybe not. Which is
what the market's responding to right
now.
>> Up next, Joe Cassidy of RBC Capital
Markets, JP Morgan [music] earnings
later this hour.
>> [music]
>> Three days, no losses on the S&P 500.
Back-to-back all-time highs. Equity
futures this morning on the S&P negative
by a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. On the
NASDAQ, down by a quarter. In the next
15 20 minutes, we'll have numbers from
Delta and [music] earnings from JP
Morgan. In the meantime, let's get you
some morning movers and cross over to
Yhira for more. Hey, Yahira.
>> Hi, John. [music] We start with Intel
AMD. Both shares are up in the
pre-market after KeyBank upgraded both
to overweight, saying the chip [music]
makers have largely sold out of their
server CPU in 2026. And as you can see,
Intel getting an even bigger boost, up
3.7% due to the analysts citing a major
design win with Apple. Moving on to
another company in the chip space, that
is [music] Synopsis. Though shares are
down nearly 3% in the pre-market after
Piper Sandler [music] downgraded it to
neutral from overweight. Analysts there
say growth could slow as chipmakers
focus more on AI and data center chips.
And they [music] say that could hurt
Synopsis' consumer chip design business.
And we end on defense with L3 Harris
shares rocking higher, up nearly 10% in
the pre-market because just moments ago,
the Department of Defense announced that
it is investing $1 [music] billion in
its missile solutions unit. The funding
will help expand production for critical
missile programs, including the
Tomahawk. [music] This is, of course,
part of a bigger effort by this
administration to ramp up these [music]
companies production capabilities. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for the update
on our radar this morning. Earning
season begins as Delta Airlines. Here's
the outlook from them. They see 26
adjusted EPS. It ranges 650 to 750. The
estimate 720. The CEO Ed Bastion saying
2026 is off to a strong start with
topline growth accelerating on consumer
and Lisa. Corporate demand.
>> Yeah, corporate demand really surging
over in the fourth quarter in
particular. also international showing
sequential improvement seeing sort of
year-over-year growth driven by that
transatlantic uh area. What's
interesting to me aside from the fact
that they took a hit from the fourth
quarter given the government shutdown of
about $200 million that have been
previously announced is how hard and how
much they have seen the increase in
their card business. You saw an 11%
growth in their American Express linked
uh card payments, the enumer enumeration
from that, which raises a question of
how much some of these airlines are
increasingly relying on some of these
additional streams of business, whether
it's the credit card business, whether
it's their Uber partnership, and they
keep talking about their diversified
streams of revenue. That is what I'm
really curious about given some of the
multifaceted attacks we have seen on
some of those revenues. It seems like
the airlines can't catch a break if it
isn't the government shutdown. you know,
attacks on on credit card revenues.
>> We've said a few times it is the Delta
Airlines economy, okay? Half the country
thinks it's group one. The other half
can't afford to get in the main cabin.
This quote from Ed Bastian, effectively,
none of our growth in seats will be in
the main cabin. They virtually all will
be in the premium sector.
>> And you've seen this with respect to
also an announcement of more deliveries
for aircraft. Given the fact that there
is now a new emphasis on expanding the
front of the cabin, we've seen this from
every single airline. If you want to
make money, you need to cater to the
upper class. You need to cater to the
higher paying customer. You see that
even from the likes of JetBlue. You see
that from American Airlines. You see
that increasingly from United with
Delta. That is the entirety of the
revenue increases which just really
raises the question, how much is this
really the Delta economy or is this
really increasingly representative of
the of the upper echelons?
>> It's why we're looking forward to this
interview tomorrow. Do not miss this
conversation. 8:15 Eastern time
tomorrow. Lisa is going to be sitting
down with Ed Bastion, the Delta Airlines
CEO, to talk through some of these major
issues.
>> Yeah. And I really am curious about the
main cabin versus the front of the
cabin. How much that is something that
is going to stick in perpetuity? In
other words, how much are they planning
these new uh these new aircraft designed
around that? I also am curious about the
credit card side, right? How much can
you expand into these other streams of
revenue? How much will it ultimately
become Delta, the credit card company,
versus Delta, the airline? Delta in the
pre-market negative at the moment by
about 4%. That's the latest on Delta
Airlines and their earnings. Elsewhere,
the US attorney Janine Piro reportedly
subpoenaing subpoening the Federal
Reserve without seeking approval from
the DOJ. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that Piro won't back down from
an investigation into Fed chair Jay
Powell. Elsewhere, the president
imposing a 25% tariff on goods from
countries quote doing business with
Iran. The move sparking concerns about
disrupting the USChina trade agreement
and casting doubt over the president's
plans for an April visit to Beijing.
>> So there's a number of countries that
this would impact. China, UAE, Turkey,
Iraq, the European Union, and we need
more details. Is this on top of the
trade agreements and the levies already
set between these countries and the
president of the United States? Does
this include things like medical
facilities and food? What kind of tariff
imports could we see on what kind of
materials? And on top of that, tomorrow
we're going to get a Supreme Court
decision on AIPA. Does the president
even have the authority to do this? Will
be up for question in 24 hours.
>> Yeah, it does raise questions though
about the US relationship with both
India and China. Right. I mean,
ultimately there are already tariffs
that could supersede the 25% additional
if this isn't necessarily in addition.
That said, a real question of whether
this just heightens the conflict between
the US and China in a way that some
people were looking to fade into the
background for the remainder of 2026.
>> Isn't it nice just to turn down the
volume on the politics just for a moment
and focus on some earnings?
>> Can you tell how happy that makes me?
>> I can tell it's making you very, very
happy.
>> It's actually something we can dig into.
I'm a little bit bored. [laughter] Just
kidding.
>> You'll be happier in about 10 minutes
time when we get numbers from JP Morgan
set to report results in just a few
minutes time. Tracking that for us this
morning. Danny Burgerer. Good morning,
Danny.
>> Good morning, John. JP Morgan, they have
a lot to prove. Yes, it's the most
profitable bank, but that means it's
also one of the most expensive.
Valuations are near the highest in a
decade. And there are some lingering
questions that will either prove or
disprove JP Morgan's ability to stay
there. One, it's a lower rate
environment. We are expected, I guess
there's a question to how many cuts, but
maybe to get cuts after already getting
them for 2025. So, as the ratesdriven
business starts to eb, is the expected
boom in dealmaking enough to supplant it
as a growth driver? Already JP Morgan
has been at the forefront of some of the
blockbuster deals in 2025, providing a
20 billion debt package for EA's Take
Private, the largest in history. How do
they position themselves for this year
with more blockbuster deals like a
rumored IPO with SpaceX on the docket
for this year? [snorts] Now, the other
big question, and it's one, John, that
you all have been addressing this
morning. What does consumer lending look
like? Yes, for the normal reasons, the
health of the economy, uh what do issues
like loan losses and how they're using
and paying off credit cards to the
American public, but how do they change
things with a desire of this president
to cap rates at 10% for the credit card
business? Truista said that for all
these banks, it would make credit card
businesses unprofitable. And I should
remind everyone the timing couldn't be
worse. JP Morgan just last week
announced that they would be taking over
the Apple credit card from Goldman
Sachs. Are they going to live to regret
that deal? Uh so all the color from
Jamie Diamond when the earnings call
begins at 8 a.m. for media, 8:30 a.m.
for analysts. A lot of things for him to
answer.
>> Danny, stay close. When those numbers
drop, we'll come over to you. Danny
Burgerer there tracking the story out of
JP Morgan this morning. Jarro Cassidy of
RBC expecting strong results from the
sector overall. writing, "We expect
higher total revenues offset in part by
higher provisions and higher expenses.
We remain positive on bank stocks over
the next 12 months." Jared joins us now
for more. Jed, welcome to the show. We
kicked it off this morning by talking
about the performance of some of these
banks. The KBW bank index up almost 30%
last year, up more than 30% the year
before. Just how high is the bar for
these players this year?
>> John, it's a very good question and it
kind of is reminiscent to me of the mid1
1990s. If you go back and look at 1995
through 1997, the bank stocks clearly
outperformed the S&P in those years and
was up what similar performances to what
you just referenced recently. The
outlook is still setting up very
positive putting aside this credit card
issue that you guys have just
referenced. But the outlook is very
positive for the banks when you consider
the real GDP growth probably comes in
this year maybe around 2%. But more
importantly, loan growth has picked up.
Every Friday, the Federal Reserve
releases what we call the H8 report. The
loan growth at the start of the year,
that report was showing year-over-year
loan growth for the industry at about 0
to 1%. Last week when it came out, we're
showing loan growth 5 to 6%. So clearly
going into 26, much better loan growth
outlook. Second, you also have a
steepening yield curve. If we see the
Fed cut 25 to 50 basis points by June
and the 10ear stays over four, it's been
20 years, John, since we've had a Fed
funds rate at 3% with a slope of 75 to
100 basis points on the positive side.
So the outlook to us and credit, you
guys mentioned it a moment ago, credit
is benign. Credit quality is good. So
overall, they're over capitalized going
to be buying back stock and most of all
you're still going to get regulatory
relief in 2026. Jer to build on uh
John's point here there is this issue of
the banks and messaging at a time where
increasingly people are looking for
populist messages in politics are
talking about capping interest rates. If
you have banks that come out with
unprecedented net interest income with
unprecedented revenues talking about how
much they're making as a result of the
deregulatory trend, does this become a
political liability? Does this put them
potentially on the hot seat to have some
of the uh candy taken back?
>> Lisa, it's a good point. It puts the
spotlight on them because the
profitability for the industry is very
strong. If you look at the FDIC data
that comes out every quarter, third
quarter profitability for the US banking
industry when you annualize it is at a
record high. So, you're right, it does
kind of put a spotlight on the banks.
However, obviously the banks are not
holding back from lending. They're very
engaged in growing the economy. You
might remember Secretary Bessant in
February of last year came out and said
that this administration was going to
loosen the corset around B bank
regulation to have the banks more
engaged in the US economy to help spur
the growth of the economy. And that's
what they're doing.
>> Gerard, as they loosen the corset, I
wonder how much they're actually just
eating into the business. I'm talking
about the big banks eating into the
business of some of the private asset
managers versus actually meeting an
increased demand for credit. In other
words, is this sort of an optimistic
read on the economy or is this an
optimistic read on banks that are
actually more able to compete with the
private sector?
>> Lisa, it's a it's a good point and I
would say it's both. When you take a
look at this loan growth that I just
referenced, clearly the banks are
lending and we have to remember banks
are in the business to lend money and
that's what they're doing. They also
obviously have diversified their
revenues to manage money and also to be
involved in the capital markets. But
it's interesting when you take a look at
the um the growth in loans. It's it's
been quite remarkable in the fourth
quarter. And I think you're going to
hear this year because obviously fourth
quarter results being released today
will give us guidance for the 2026 year.
And I think you're going to hear that
the loan growth outlook is more robust
this year than it was a year ago.
>> We'll look for that in just a moment.
Happy to say you're going to stay close
and break down these results with us.
Sher Cassidy of RBC. In about the next
five minutes or so, we should get these
results from JP Morgan. So stand by for
that. For now, let's get you an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Ronnie Quinn. Hey Ronnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. So Delta Airlines
then shares falling in the pre-market.
The company posted mixed results [music]
for the fourth quarter while forecasting
better than expected adjusted earnings
for the full year. CEO Ed Bastian saying
quote 2026 is off to a strong start with
topline growth accelerating [music] on
consumer and corporate demand. Coming up
tomorrow, Lisa will be sitting down with
Delta CEO Ed Bastian at 8:15 [music]
Eastern.
Bank of New York Melon topping earnings
estimates for the fourth quarter results
driven by gains in fee revenue and
interest income. CEO Robin Vince saying
their strategic roadmap is paying off as
the firm eyes further growth in AI and
digital [music] assets. BNY teamed up
with Google Cloud in December to launch
its AI platform called Eliza, named
after Alexander Hamilton's wife.
Google is entering into a multi-year
deal to power Apple's AI technology,
including Siri. Terms of the deal were
not disclosed. Bloomberg [music]
reported late last year that Apple was
planning to pay about a billion dollars
a year for the service. Google Tech will
help support a new version of Siri due
this year that was previously [music]
delayed by development snags. And that
is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Promised you
those numbers from JP Morgan. [music]
So, here they are. This comes from Jamie
Diamond, the CEO. Each line of business
performed well. You can judge for
yourself. Fixed sales and [music]
trading revenue came in at 5.38 billion.
The estimate was 5.27.
Equity sales and trading revenue came in
at 2.86. [music]
The estimate was 27. And for the
investment bank, 2.55 billion was
[music] the revenue number. The estimate
was 2.65.
>> Yeah. Also talking about an increase in
loan loss reserves, a $2.1 billion net
reserve [music] build. At the same time,
there's a real question about whether
this is actually them taking more risk.
And traditionally Jamie Diamond has been
very conservative. So may might not be
about cockroaches. Also talking about
how uh they're excited to become the new
issuer of the Apple Card. So I'm very
curious about what they are bringing on
from Goldman Sachs and how they plan to
make that profitable.
>> Looking for some guidance as well from
these big players. We'll get to all of
this in just a moment. The early move in
the pre-market, the stock lower by about
a tenth of 1%. Up next on the program, a
high bar for the big bags.
>> The stocks are a little overheated uh
here going into earning season. It's
It's the highest bar that I can think of
since 2021. So, um, we're of the view
that you could get a sell the news
event. Expectations are super high going
in. JP Morgan kicking off Big Bank
earnings. That conversation up next.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Lots to talk about. Earnings in
focus. Futures just a little bit softer
on the S&P [music] 500 under
surveillance this morning. A high bar
for the big banks.
>> This administration has actually been
fairly bankfriendly as it relates to uh
regulatory reform, which has been a
positive. stocks are a little overheated
uh here going into earnings season. It's
it's the highest bar that I can think of
since 2021. So, um we're of the view
that you could get a sell the news event
in what is going to be we think a pretty
good quarter. Actually, one of the best
quarters we've seen in some time, but
again, expectations are super high going
in.
>> Danny Burgerer, expectations are super
high. How did JP Morgan do?
>> It looks like they met the bar for most
of these results, John. They're 45.8 8
billion of reported revenue for the
quarter. And it's really the trading
that stands out as the star of these
results. Just looking at the numbers,
2.86 billion for equities in the
quarter, 5.38 billion for FIC in the
quarter. That is the be best fourth
quarter ever for JP Morgan. Again, just
going off of fourth quarters, which tend
to be a interesting quarter given the
end of the year and how people are
positioning. So that's a positive
result. I would point out that their
investment banking revenue for the
quarter comes in a little bit lighter at
$2.55 billion. That's about an $ 8.4%
growth in investment banking fees, which
is also slightly down on the year. I'll
be interested to see how JP Morgan
addresses that and why, again, not
hugely off, but a little bit weaker
considering the expected deal boom that
they themselves have been portraying.
Now, Jaime Diamond's comments on this
release are also interesting themselves.
He multiple times in the in this release
says that they're excited to become the
owner of the Apple credit card. He's
going to have a lot of questions when it
comes to credit on this. And his overall
comments on this economy, saying it
remains resilient. Labor markets have
softened, but conditions don't appear to
be worse. He goes on to say, though, as
usual, we remain vigilant and markets
seem to underappreciate the potential
hazards, including from complex
geopolitical conditions and the risk of
sticky inflation and elevated asset
prices. is strong.
>> There's always something to worry about.
The stock is up by 2%. Sometimes you
just drain the drama and focus on a
couple of simple things. The economy is
resilient, consumers are spending, and
businesses remain healthy.
>> And you see that in the numbers because
ultimately even the loan loss reserves
are coming in below what people had
expected them to come in. Given the fact
that they're still seeing a pretty
positive look going forward, I'm very
curious to see what the fullear forecast
is. more interesting. Yes, they're
focusing on the Apple Card, but that
slight miss in investment banking
revenue and debt underwriting and equity
underwriting raises a question of how
competitive this landscape has gotten
and raises some questions about the
likes of Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs. I'm very curious to see what they
report.
>> Danny, stay close. We'll come back to
you in just a moment. I want to bring in
Jar Cassidy of RBC. He's still with us.
Jared, is it that simple? The economy is
resilient, consumers are spending, and
businesses are healthy.
>> John, you said it very well. This been
the theme that we've been recommending
to investors is what you just said and
JP Morgan's numbers put this up here and
we were talking a moment ago about the
steepening of the yield curve. One of
the things that caught was that their
net interest margin which was 2.45% in
the third quarter went to 2.54% in the
fourth quarter. This is going to impact
all the banks. And that's my point. We
it's been 20 years as I was mentioning a
moment ago that we've seen this kind of
environment and investors don't remember
that and this is a very good environment
to lend money and that's what of course
JP Morgan does and its peers on the
investment banking side though it was a
little weak we have to remember the
shutdown the government shutdown
affected IPOs and other types of
activities so I think I think we'll hear
uh on the call about the pipelines being
strong going into the first quarter
>> Gerard it used to be that JP Morgan
kicked off earning season and people
would say it would set the tone for the
rest of corporate America and then big
tech took the helm and started to change
that narrative some based on what we're
seeing right now. Do you think that this
truly is representative of the broader
US economy in a new kind of way talking
about the ongoing strength the fact that
the labor market hasn't weakened more
according to Jamie Diamond and the fact
that they're expanding some of their
loans?
I think it is Liser and it's it's an
interesting point because you know Bank
America as well both of these companies
are very sizable banks and they have a
good pulse on what's going on in the US
economy both from the consumer and the
corporate side and so they can see the
trends in their consumer business on
delinquencies on payment rates they also
see the demand not only from consumers
but from corporates and so I think it is
representative it's a very good
representative of the health of the
economy since both well we'll find out
later in the week about Bank America JP
Morgan they have a good pulse a good
feel for the pulse of what's going on in
the US economy and as you point out John
he pointed out Diamond Jimmy Diamond
that it's resilient right now
>> just getting the forecast from JP Morgan
let me jump in Jared so they're seeing
2026 net interest income of about $103
billion Lisa the estimate was hundred.38
billion so all these things to worry
about and then JP Morgan does what JP
Morgan often does.
>> Yeah, JP Morgan does. JP Morgan. Okay,
let's just put that into perspective.
$103 billion. I don't know if that's a
record. I'm pretty sure that is a
record. We saw something like 90
something billion the last time around.
$103 billion is the market cap of a lot
of companies. That is just their net
interest income. It is amazing how huge
these banks are and how they continue to
get bigger and more profitable in this
current environment.
>> J, can you just frame that number for
us? $103 billion for 26 net interest
income.
>> John, that's that's a very large number.
It's better, I think, than ex expected.
It's certainly higher than our uh model.
Um but it also shows that you know the
and we'll again hear this on the call.
It takes into account net interest
income of course is going to be driven
by earning asset growth which is made up
of loans and securities. And as I was
pointing out, we see this loan growth
really have has picked up. And then
second, the margin. And if the yield
curve steepens further, the margins will
get higher. And and that's the thing,
you know, we've been living in a real
challenging environment for banks. And
with this regulatory relief, the banks
are going to see, I think, better loan
growth. And then if the yield curve
steepens, we're going to see better
margins. So I think overall, this is
very reflective of the industry and not
just for JP Morgan. Have you got a top
pick for us this quarter, Jared? As we
work our way through this,
>> I think we could take a look at the
regional banks. Uh, US Bankor is one to
take a look at. They'll benefit from
these trends. Also, Mnt Bank is another
regional bank that should also have a
good outlook for 2026.
>> Jared Cassidy of RBC. Garrett, thank
you, sir. Appreciate it. Stock is higher
by more than 1%. Lisa, that's quite a
number.
>> I'm looking [clears throat] right now at
the previous net interest income for
full year 2017. It was $50 billion. that
is less than half of what they expect
coming this year in terms of net
interest income. So yes, it would be a
record and the exponential increase that
we have seen over the past number of
years is just truly remarkable.
>> Danny still standing by. Danny, the bar
seems to be getting higher, not lower
for these players ahead of the big
earnings story of tomorrow and the day
after. I I was going to say JP Morgan
already stands at the most profitable
bank and here it is talking about net
interest income that is surpassing most
estimates. One of the things in their
2026 outlook I was just looking through
that also I think will help calm some
investor fears are the expenses. We
heard from Marian Lake a couple months
ago saying that 2026 expenses would
beund5
billion. With this outlook they have
kept it at the same. So they primed this
market letting them know that expenses
would pick up and maybe it is that
investment that's helping JP Morgan also
become a more profitable bank. It is a
bank as many are that are investing more
in AI. So it is these mega trends that
they're contending with alongside easing
regulation loan growth that continues to
grow that for now means that results in
2026 that animal spirits are in alive
and well for this bank.
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Productivity is something these banks
are all leaning on and keen to
highlight. Tomorrow we hear from City,
Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Thursday,
Goldman, and Morgan Stanley.
>> Yeah, very curious to see their results,
whether they also see an increase in
interest income. Interesting how
productivity has a different meaning to
Wall Street and to Main Street.
Productivity to Wall Street is the
elixir that will create this
non-inflationary boom into Main Street.
It raises questions about other things
like labor [music] markets.
>> It's a decent start for earnings season
for Wall Street, that's for sure. JP
Morgan looking for 2026 net interest
income of about $103 billion. The
conversation continues with Lisa Shannon
of Morgan Stanley, Charles Mars of
Signnum, Ryan Matal [music] CEO, Armen
Papagajer, and Noria Rabini of Rabini
Macro Associates. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance just around the
corner.
[music]
>> It's still very clear that the economy
is actually still in decent shape. There
really is a good economic setup.
>> Inflation expectations have remained
very benign.
>> We're likely to see an environment where
inflation picks up. You can make
tactical trades, but ultimately the US
is the most dynamic economy. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, [music] and An
Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second Arab
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this.
Back-to-back [music]
alltime highs on the S&P 500 this
morning at least. Just a little bit
softer, but no drama. Down a tenth of 1%
[music] on the S&P on the NASDAQ. Down
by a quarter. Later this morning, 8:30
Eastern time. Inflation data in focus.
CPI in America. [music] Tomorrow, more
bank earnings again on Thursday. 15
minutes ago, JP Morgan kicking things
off and kicking things off with some big
numbers. That stock higher by about a
third of 1%.
>> Yeah, the net interest income really uh
casting some real questions around
anyone who doubts the prominence of this
bank and frankly the banking sector.
$103 billion. That is up from $50
billion back [music] in 2017 of net
interest income. The expectation was
$100.3 billion. What they guided toward
was 96 billion. In other words, they
totally sandbagged the market as per
usual, but they came out with such a big
number that really people are wondering
what can stop this behemoth [music] and
really is fueling the whole banking
trade. One thing that could potent
potentially stop this is Jamie Diamond,
although he sounds very optimistic
[music] talking about the US economy
remaining resilient, consumers
continuing to spend. These conditions
could persist. You have fiscal stimulus
he's talking about. He says, however, we
remain vigilant and markets seem to
underappreciate the potential hazards.
He always has to throw [music] a little
bit of caution in the mix even though
these numbers are gang buster.
>> Stock is up by almost 33% over the last
year or so. It's up a third of 1% this
morning. The bar is higher. Bank stocks
have had a massive run and there is
always something to worry about. I
understand that. [music] This time I
think we're all worrying about the K in
a much more material way. Why? Because
politicians are looking to act and do
something about it. And it's the
political risk for 2026, [music] 27, and
28 that really comes onto people's
horizon. Now, when you hear these banks
say things are great, who are we really
talking about? Look at the numbers from
Delta 30 minutes ago. Delta's telling
you that all of the growth is going to
come from the premium part of the cabin
and none of it's [music] going to come
from the main cabin. Why? Because
they're the people struggling right now.
>> We have been asking [music] repeatedly,
when does the K-shaped economy start to
styy some of what we're seeing in terms
of uh earnings expectations and market
uh market momentum? It could come in
this political cycle. People are talking
about 2026, I mean 2027, 2028. But
you're seeing this in something like
capping credit [music] card fees at 10%.
That goes to some very tangible
proposals that are getting bipartisan
support and raises questions about
whether the hand that giveth can take
away given how much the regulatory
backdrop has fueled these shares.
>> And I wonder if this morning they're
thinking about a little bit differently
the 10.4 4 million new credit card
accounts they're talking about. Given
the fact that not only is the [music]
president of the United States calling
for an interest rate cap, he says by
January 20th, though there's no law yet,
he's actually having phone conversations
with individuals who certainly do not
like Jamie Diamond, like Elizabeth
Warren to talk about that. Last night,
he's talking about Senator Roger
Marshall. This bill has been floating
for years. This is due to competition
for swipe fees. The pressure is going to
mount on these banks, especially given
how high these numbers.
>> And Doubt, of course, is a credit card
company with wings. And Lisa is going to
be catching up with Ed Bastion tomorrow
at 8:15 Eastern time. And I imagine that
conversation is going to come up.
>> Well, certainly given the fact that they
saw an 11% gain in terms of the [music]
earnings stemming from their American
Express card. I can't get that image out
of my head. A credit card with wings. I
know. I loved that.
>> I'm just thinking it's sort of like uh
it kind of reminds me of like Arabian
Nights.
>> Who should be doing their marketing?
[music] That was brilliant.
>> Okay, you tell Adbastian tomorrow. You
know, I might be looking for a job later
this year.
>> I think [laughter] I think I'll to run
marketing.
>> It's like it's like Red Bull. It gives
you wings. Delta credit.
>> You're not getting out of this so
easily, darling.
>> You know what I would do at Delta if I
was running Delta?
>> Yes. [music]
>> Just make the lounge a little bit more
exclusive. It's just become ridiculous.
>> I think that they are doing that. It's
called the Delta 1. Lisa alongside us.
Lisa, would you choose to go in the
Delta Lounge at this point?
>> Don't anymore. It's Penn Station. Oh my
god. Literally by a little
>> If you have to wait, if you have to wait
more than 5 to 10 minutes to get into
the lounge, it's not exclusive. And I'd
rather just go to Shake Shack.
>> There you go.
>> Okay.
You know what? I agree. But the Delta 1
lounge is pretty beautiful. [music] And
I will also say the restaurants are very
nice. You can get to know the locals a
very frequent flyer.
>> Okay. You can tell which one of us
speaking to the CEO tomorrow. Delta's
down [laughter] by 5% in the pre-market.
Coming up on the program, Lisa Shallow
and Morgan Stanley as fear fades and
risk rallies. Charles Mer signum global
as President Trump threatens new tariffs
on Iran's trade partners and Armen
Papager of Ryatal as geopolitical risk
lift defense stocks. We begin this hour
with stocks close to all-time highs as
JP Morgan kicks off bank earnings season
with a beat. Lisa Shallot, the CIO of
Morgan Stanley Wealth Management, sees a
widening trend for markets, writing,
"The consensus is firmly anchored to
economic broadening themes. Churn below
the surface presents opportunities for
outperformance." Lisa joins us now for
more. Lisa, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Good morning.
>> A proper welcome. Let's talk about that
anchor. What is the anchor for you for
26?
>> Uh, so look, I I think the anchor for us
is maybe a little bit different than the
consensus. I mean the this call for
broadening uh of the economy for a
cyclical uh rally for an almost
disinflationary boom. Uh while you know
some of my colleagues like to talk about
that as a non- consensus view I think it
is fundamentally a massively consensus
view that is being priced uh every
single day. Um I I think you know from
where we're sitting um the the
fundamental issue is really about
earnings realization. Um we're sitting
in a market where um you know what's
baked in is an expectation for 14 15 16%
year-over-year earnings growth. Uh those
are big numbers. They're ambitious in
any historic context for a single year.
uh and to the extent that uh the mag
seven which are you know as much as you
know 30 35% of the market cap of the
market are going to have de just
mathematically decelerating rates of
growth it puts the burden on everybody
else to really you know deliver uh and
while I think that there's going to be
some sectors right potentially like
financials which we think are going to
continue to deliver healthcare a handful
of the industrials uh I'm not sure that
the whole market uh X Mag 7 is going to
be able to do those kind of numbers.
>> So Lisa, this raises big questions about
how you play the story this year.
>> Passively at the index level or more
actively, what are you advocating for?
AB:
>> Absolutely. We we're active stock
pickers this year. Uh our view is that
uh that passive index with that exposure
to the concentration is at risk.
Is it the idea that outperformance is
going to come from particular sectors or
just specific companies that are best
positioned to potentially gain market
share particularly if they're bigger and
have more economies of scale?
>> Yeah, I think it's a little bit of both,
right? So, from a sector perspective, I
think we would say financials,
healthcare, industrials, potentially
energy. Uh and then below the surface
say in in um in some of the consumer
certainly in some of tech uh and some of
you know commun communication services
we want to be stock pickers at this
point. Do you think that this is the
environment simply because there isn't
one big easy to identify macro trend
that we're in this sort of lowfire
lowire churn. It's unclear exactly what
direction the Fed is going to be going
in. If they cut rates once or three
times it won't make that big of a
difference. Is that ultimately the
reason why this is truly an active uh
stock markets stock pickers market?
>> Uh yes. And I and I think that as I said
because there's so much pressure on
earnings realization and the
expectations are so high, you've got to
be able to execute. And so one of our
hypotheses is that and it's why we don't
like the small cap trade that has been
working here is we fundamentally believe
that you need skill, you need scale, you
need pricing power in this market to
achieve these these kinds of earnings
growth numbers. And our best guess is
while some of these small caps maybe
there may be a good story about
broadening and a good story about easier
financial conditions and lower interest
rates. I'm not sure these companies have
the the goods have the skills um to
actually get it done especially when so
much of the story is on you know Gen AI
implementation. Is it hard to pick
stocks in this environment as an
election year when you have the
president calling out specific sectors
sometimes about whether or not they
should have dividends or buybacks?
Electricity companies might become more
in focus.
>> So, so the answer is obviously yes. I
mean, I think what has continued to to
flammix us just just flat out uh is that
the market doesn't believe that there's
genuine policy risk. Right? If you look
at risk premiums in this market, they're
extraordinarily narrow. People are not
really I mean the bond market has
started to price a term premium visav
the last 10 or 15 years, but it's still
half of history, right? And look how
expensive equities are, right? So
there's not a real risk premium around
policy. I I think that there continues
to be this belief and among especially
among the donor class, many of whom are
investors, uh that ultimately they will
control him and they will control
Washington. Uh and just as you saw, you
know, uh over the weekend, uh in any
other chapter in my personal career, if
we had gotten a headline over the
weekend, um that the chair of the
Federal Reserve was going to be uh
issued a criminal subpoena, uh I think
the market would have been opened down a
thousand. [laughter]
>> Do you think that's complacency though
or just faith in guardrails? Amarie
yesterday called it the tillis put. Is
it complacency or just faith in the
guardrails? Uh, I I guess it's faith in
the guardrails. I, you know, I'm not
gonna I'm not gonna pick apart your
words, but um ultimately I think
>> you're welcome to if you want.
>> Yeah.
>> No, I look I I think ultimately it's
this idea that uh the investor class
fundamentally believes that they have
access to the debate and the dialogue in
Washington and can ultimately
put the brakes on. That's what
liberation day proved. It literally
emboldened I mean remember what happened
after liberation day. The markets
rallied over six months 40%
from April 9th. That is a market that is
confident. We got their number. We know
which phone calls to make uh when
something happens that we don't like.
>> It could be interpreted a slightly
different way. It could be interpreted
that this is an administration that
wants to see the stock market go up,
wants to see bond yields go down and has
the levers to pull to actually execute
that. How much do you see this really
being expressed in the rest of the world
continuing to outperform the United
States which it was last year and
potentially could continue this year
according to consensus? Yeah. So this is
where I think you know probably our view
is most aligned um with consensus that
the rest of world trade and even um uh
emerging markets are going to continue
to outperform uh for exactly those
reasons that that there's almost um you
know this this uh positive halo effect
but it's not priced right so the US is
fully priced on the halo effect that hey
we've got guard rails we've got control
of this thing um rest of world has not
um been valued in that way. Um so there
for us there's a catch-up trade because
the whole rest of world is is moving in
tandem. I'm pleased you brought up last
April it was just absolutely terrible
and it was so hard to think about what
could go right which made it easier to
beat expectations and you come into this
year and listening to Lisa it's easy to
think about what could go right this
year which I think it makes it harder to
beat expectations
>> the idea of how high is
>> exactly
>> well and it raises a question of what
kind of potential risk premium there is
baked into earnings this year given the
fact that the the bar is so high
>> Lisa you want a final word
>> uh I mean look our final word is exactly
that Jonathan that you know our our you
know tagline for this year is you know
the pathway the window for upside
surprise is just narrowing right every
every time you have uh you know a
company you know beaten raise um that
window for you know how easy is it going
to be to jump over the hurdle and get
everyone you know to go oh my at the
tape uh gets harder and harder
>> appreciate the acting very theatrical
Lisa good to see you thank you Lisa
Shanet there of Morgan Stanley let's get
you an update on stories ries worldwide
this morning. Let's cross over to Vonnie
Quinn for your Bloomberg brief. Hey
Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. JP Morgan kicking
off the big bank earnings reporting
adjusted revenue for the fourth quarter
that met the average analyst estimate.
[music] The bank is expecting net
interest income of about $103 billion
for 2026. CEO Jamie Diamond saying the
US economy has remained resilient and
while labor markets have softened,
conditions do not appear to be
worsening.
The case for the Fed holding rates
steady is building. New York Fed
President John Williams shared he
believes interest rates are quote well
positioned [music] to stabilize the
labor market and bring inflation back to
the central bank's 2% goal. Williams
going on to emphasize that Fed
independence has paid quote huge
dividends in terms of helping keep
inflation [music] in check.
City Group is set to cut about a
thousand jobs this week as part of CEO
Jane Frasier's push to control costs and
boost returns. Sources telling us here
at Bloomberg, the bank is making the
cuts as part of a plan to eliminate
20,000 jobs this year. City [music] set
to report its full year results
Wednesday. That is your Bloomberg brief.
John.
>> Hey, Vonyie. Thank you. Appreciate it.
More from Vonyie in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, ramping up
the pressure on Iran.
>> I think one thing President Trump is is
very good at is always keeping all of
his options on the table. The president
has shown he's unafraid to use military
options if and when he deems necessary
and nobody knows that better than Iran.
>> That conversation up next with Charles
Mars of Signnum Global from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Back-to-back alltime highs on the S&P
500. Futures this morning down by let's
call it a tenth of 1% [music] on the
S&P. Negative 0.2 on the NASDAQ. Small
caps down by2% as well. Earnings in
focus in the last hour. We've heard from
Delta Airlines. We've heard from JP
Morgan as well. JP Morgan in the
pre-market higher by 0.7%
following a tremendous run for the big
banks on Wall Street over the last 12
months [music] and some very very big
numbers coming out of them as they look
ahead to the rest of the year.
>> $103 billion just [music] to put that
into perspective. They had originally
guided toward $96 billion of net
interest income. The fact that they're
talking about $103 billion after they
saw something like $50 billion in 2017
[music] highlights how massively this
bank has expanded their revenue streams
and their profitability, raising a
question, is this truly the guide for
the rest of the economy and market, or
is this the winner takes all type of
trend?
>> I'm not sure how much weight you should
put on earnings day price action, but I
do wonder how much information you'd
take from this. We've had a 30% plus
[music] rally over the last 12 months
for this name. Numbers are decent.
They're okay. Stocks only up 0.7%. Is
that a taste of things to come this
week?
>> Well, as we just heard, and I think that
it's a great point to bring up. It's a
narrower pathway to beating some of the
expectations. Last year, there were low
expectations, as you were saying. This
year, there are much higher
expectations, particularly when it comes
to financials, which have outperformed
to a dramatic [music] degree and have
gotten to a pretty big price to book
ratio relative to the recent past. The
question is, can they break out with new
streams of revenue, with new
efficiencies? Watch this space when it
comes to AI and what they plan to do on
expenses. stock is higher by 0.7%.
[music] Let's talk about the geopolitics
as well. Under Sylvanas this morning,
ramping up the pressure on Iran.
>> I think one thing President Trump is is
very good at is always keeping all of
his options on the table and air strikes
would be one of the many many options
that are on the table uh for the
commander-in-chief. Diplomacy is always
the first option for the president.
However, with that said, [music]
um the president has shown he's unafraid
to use military options if and when he
deems necessary, and nobody knows that
better than Iran.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Trump imposing a 25% tariff on
countries that are doing business with
Iran. The move could disrupt US trading
relationships with countries including
India, Turkey, and China. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall joins us now for more.
Good morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, as you
mentioned, China is really at risk here.
It's Iran's largest trading partner and
the largest importer of Iranian crude,
which means that this could upset the
trade truce currently in place between
Washington and Beijing. And we've
already heard a pretty forceful push
back from Chinese officials in the wake
of President Trump's announcement. With
that said, though, it's worth mentioning
that China doesn't currently face
so-called secondary tariffs over its
imports of Russian energy supplies. So,
we could see another carveout here. Now,
that's led our own analysts at Bloomberg
Economics to say that this move would
likely have a limited impact. Though,
they do point out since such few
countries depend on Iran as a main
trading partner, this could result in an
incentive to cut ties. President Trump
says that this is effective immediately,
though he did decline to outline the
scope and the implementation of these
tariffs. It does just mark the latest
escalation threat from this White House
after a senior administration official
confirmed to us that the president has
been briefed on a range of potential
military strikes inside Iran is that he
is seriously considering authorizing an
attack inside the country after openly
backing the protesters. Now, as you
heard, the White House press secretary
there, Caroline Levit, she confirmed
that diplomacy is still on the table,
and it's our understanding that Iran has
reached out to the US for a meeting
potentially between Iran's foreign
minister and special envoy Steve
Wickoff. John, there is a lot of ways
that this could go from here. I will
quickly mention that we've heard from
Iran against a potential for a US
strike. They say that American military
assets in the region would be a
legitimate target. Though while severely
crippled, Iran still does maintain its
large missile arsenal.
>> And Tyler Kendall, it's difficult to
keep up. Tyler, thank you. Remember 10
years ago when they took Maduro?
[laughter]
>> You mean last week? You mean last week?
>> Feels like a decade.
>> It was like 20 2013.
>> Joining us now is Charles Mars of
Signum. You thought I tripped up then.
No, of course not.
>> I was like, what happened 10 years ago?
Never trips up.
>> Come on. Sometimes. Not this morning.
Charles joins us now for more. Charles,
welcome to the program. These secondary
tariffs, do they have teeth or is it all
bark?
Yeah, I think more a little more bark.
Um the truth is that China violates uh
Iranian sanctions anyway. They are the
biggest importer of of Iran Iranian oil.
They buy about 90% of Iran's oil. Um so
I think you know whether it's a carveout
or they just ignore it, I think it has
limited impact. Um what it does do is
put more pressure on the regime in Iran
to come to the table and try to
negotiate a deal which is what President
want, President Trump wants. He always
prefers negotiation first, if not then
possibly a military strike. Um, but at
the moment we're trying to get a
diplomatic solution.
>> But a diplomatic solution, Charles,
would lead to what? Still the Ayatollah
in power, the president of Iran in
power. I've not seen any elites at the
moment effect.
>> Yeah, I think that, you know, like in
Venezuela, uh, you know, the a lot of
folks in the markets and a lot of people
in the sort of geopolitical space want
regime change. They talk about regime
change, but I think what the president
uh President Trump would prefer is
leadership change uh and reforms
domestically and then also a new nuclear
deal with the United States. Uh I think
the uh possibility of regime change is
still relatively low in Iran. Like with
Venezuela, it was leadership change, not
regime change.
>> Charles, when it comes to Venezuela, are
you still preparing that trip for a
dozen of investors to go down to
Caracus?
>> Absolutely. We're going to take about 25
investors uh late March down to Crocus.
Will be the first foreign investor trip.
Uh we think it's going to be about a
$500 billion opportunity over the next
10 years, not only in oil and gas, but
also in infrastructure, construction,
mining, steel, ultimately tourism, but
also uh part of the trip will be uh
emerging market investors that own the
defaulted uh Venezuelan sovereign bonds
and beesa bonds. So, it's going to be a
very interesting trip. Uh we're very
excited about it and uh we were in Syria
back in October. We were in Ukraine last
year. Uh this will be again the first
big foreign investor trip to to
Venezuela.
>> How does that work, Charles? Do you go
in an armored car with US troops that
are accompanying you? I mean, what kind
of security do you need for a trip like
that?
>> Yeah, I think like with Syria, we did uh
contract with a private security company
that did all of our security on the
ground, including bodyguards, uh armored
vans, etc. Uh in Venezuela, the bigger
risk um is uh you know, kidnapping or
violence from either the drug drug
cartels or some of the other armed
gangs. Uh but I think that uh it's going
to be you know the domestic security
situation is safer than it sounds and uh
we will take the necessary precautions.
>> Charles, have you been in touch with the
US government regarding this trip?
>> Yeah, we have. I've been in touch with
the White House. Uh we're going to do a
call with the Department of Energy as
well. Uh they're very supportive as you
can imagine. Uh the goal of the United
States is now now that we have removed
Maduro to ensure the success of
Venezuela. The success of Venezuela
hinges on economic success and central
to that is foreign investment. Uh uh you
know again everything we're doing is to
try to help that process. Um and the
administration is very supportive.
>> But Deli Rodriguez, her brother as well,
they run the country. They are acolytes
of Maduro. Do you see real change on the
ground?
>> I think we will see real change. uh you
know the United States has been very
clear that with uh you know Maduro being
removed and Deli being elevated into the
uh top position uh that it will only
work if she and her government
cooperates with the United States now
and and I know it's somewhat offensive
to say the United States runs the
country but um the truth is uh the the
White House is calling the shots in
Venezuela um and we have an armada
literally the biggest military presence
off the coast of Venezuela really in
modern history to ensure that that
happens. I think you'll see ongoing
cooperation and progress uh domestically
uh from the government of Venezuela.
>> Charles, I've got 40 seconds left on the
clock. For the companies that have gone
into Venezuela before and been burnt, is
this somehow different?
>> Well, I think the difference now is the
United States has a you know huge vested
interest in the success of the country.
I think there will be some government
backs stops to help uh ensure that
companies do uh feel comfortable
investing in the country. Um, but I
would say this is a major political and
geopolitical inflection not only for
Venezuela but for the Western
Hemisphere. I'm very optimistic on this.
>> Okay, Charles, I appreciate your take.
Thanks for your opinion this morning.
Charles Ms there, Signnum Global on
Venezuela.
>> Yeah, a lot of people have been pretty
optimistic on this. Even bond holders,
we saw the bond prices of Venezuela
absolutely skyrocket, which made me
question how many people are going to
sell out before you actually have to see
all of the hard work that goes into
making this come to pass. Nonetheless, a
real question about what kind of
security is going to be necessary, not
just for that particular trip, but just
in general for companies to go back to
that country.
>> Well, for Charles, he's saying that the
US is calling the shots and from all a
lot of reporting people have. Deli
Rodriguez, the United States thinks they
can work with her and [music] she's
pragmatic. So maybe this is the moment
for investors to get in on the ground.
>> We'll have more of the geopolitics in
just a moment. We'll catch up with Ryan
Matal CEO Armen Papager as European
leaders discuss plans for a military
presence in Greenland. Plus, Yihara is
going to drop by. She's got your morning
movers. [music] Delta sliding on an
underwhelming profit outlook. That name
is down 5%.
[music] Back-to-back record highs on the
S&P 500. Equity futures this morning
negative by just a tenth of 1%. On the
NASDAQ 100, we're down by, let's call it
0.15. In the bond market, [music] it has
been snoozing. Even with the news of
yesterday, the Treasury market did
nothing. 10-year bond yield still
sub420, 41989, [music] up by, let's call
it two basis points. And this is
notable, even more notable against this
backdrop in Japan. Check it out. Reports
of a snap election in Japan. The
prospect of fiscal stimulus yields
higher across the curve, up by eight
basis points, on 10, on 30s, up by 9, on
40s, up by 10. And the Treasury market
isn't really [music] blinking.
>> Yeah. And honestly, the fact that Japan,
they're just like us with a fiscal
deficit. And guess what? People are
worried about it. And guess what? You
are seeing a 10-year and 30-year yield
there that are becoming [music]
increasingly unmed in terms of how far
yields can go up. A real question about
whether that's what we're seeing in the
US bond market [music] more than
questions about the Fed's independence.
>> All that talk on Monday morning about
the South America trade. Japanese
equities doing fantastically [music]
well, but that move in bonds to see
yields high the yen weaker for a sixth
consecutive session. We said it earlier
this morning. That's a problem for
policy makers [music] who are pushing on
the fiscal pedal or at least they're
going to be potentially for the year
ahead.
>> Yeah. And it's a problem and [music] it
goes to a bigger question. How do you
cater to populist goals given the fact
that there are these fiscal constraints
[music] and market push back? That's
something that we're seeing increasingly
in Japan and that's increasingly what
we're seeing around the world.
>> That's the latest out of Asia overnight
here state side. A big focus on some of
the earnings stories. So let's get to a
few of them with your morning movers.
Here's Yahihara with more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Yes. We start with JP Morgan. A
bit of a mixed picture there. That's why
you're seeing shares in [music] the
green, but only by a quarter of a
percent. That's because investment
banking fees came in below estimates.
And that was due to weaker debt
underwriting revenue, which [music] is
was a surprise for investors. But the
trading business, what a quarter with
revenue there beating even the highest
analyst [music] estimate. Meanwhile,
moving on to another earnings story.
Delta really getting punished in [music]
the market this morning, down 5%. Fourth
quarter results were good, beating
expectations. But it's the airlines
fullear 2026 profit outlook that's
[music] gaining attention. That came in
below estimates as did free cash flow as
Delta reinvest [music] in its business.
So the skepticism around that story is
dragging down the other airlines
including United and American. [music]
And this story sort of falling under the
radar, but we are seeing L3 Harris
shares rising [music] 12% nearly this
morning because just this morning, the
Department of Defense announced it is
investing [music] $1 billion in its
missile solutions unit. The funding will
help expand production for critical
[music] missile programs, including the
Tomahawk. This marks the latest US
government's investment in corporate
America. We saw that with Intel [music]
and of course with those critical
minerals companies. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
On our race out this morning, JP Morgan
[music] kicking off bank earnings
season, beating on most measures, but
reporting a drop on investment banking
and a miss on debt underwriting. The
CEO, Jamie Diamond, calling the economy
resilient, but risks remain, including
sticky inflation. Elsewhere, the
California Governor, Gavin Newsome,
telling the New York Times he's working
to block a proposed billionaire tax,
which he has so-called long opposed. The
move comes as tech titans like Peter
Thiel threatened to flee the state if
the measure is passed. And finally,
President Trump is pushing for tech
companies to pay for AI data center
electricity costs, not the American
people. After talks with Microsoft, the
president claiming the company would
make quote major changes, but was not
very specific,
>> which again raises the question about at
what point do the higher energy costs
and the concerns about job losses become
political in a political pinata.
Interestingly, Microsoft has an
announcement in Washington DC later this
week. I wonder what they could
potentially give him as some sort of
incentive to lay off them. But this
definitely is something that's
increasingly an issue.
>> I feel like given that 2026 is becoming
2024 in terms of just throwing spaghetti
out of the wall for ideas is the new
idea that if you want to be an energy
company or a data company, a tech
company, you need to subsidize the
American people for the cost that is
going up. And I feel like Tony Fabitzio,
his personal pollster, went to him and
said, "Here is the polling right now on
energy costs, and this is what happened
in Virginia, and this is what happened
in New Jersey, and this is why you need
to focus on this today." And Trump said,
"Well, then let the tech companies pay
for it because we're the ones supporting
their AI data center buildout and
deregulating the environment for them to
succeed."
>> Don't want to be too snarky about this,
but surprising that Bill Gates jumped
off the climate train in the last
several months? Perhaps not. Well,
ultimately it's going to take not only
clean energy, but also coal. And that's
what we've seen with respect to powering
some of these data centers. So, how do
you get to that next level in this
technological buildout?
>> It's a massive political issue, and it's
an issue right now. Let's turn back to
geopolitics. Germany and the UK leading
talks about potentially adding a
military presence in Greenland as
President Donald Trump doubles down on
his desire to control the territory, the
rising tensions, and plans to increase
military spending, boosting European
defense stocks. Armen Papager, the CEO
of German arms manufacturer Rhyatal
joins us now for more. Armen, good
morning. It's good to see you, sir.
>> Good morning. Good to be here.
>> How concerned should we be about the
state of the world coming into 2026?
>> I'm really concerned about that because
if you see there is not only the
conflict between Russia and Ukraine.
There are a lot of conflicts and uh I'm
really afraid that uh we no longer have
it under control.
>> What do you think has changed that makes
it maybe out of control?
Yeah, first of all, um I think the that
uh President Trump tried to stop the war
and uh he was not successful in between
between Russia and Ukraine and it's not
as easy because what I think is that
Russia at the end of the day uh they
want to have a winning strategy and they
lost a lot of people. They lost a lot of
material at the moment and uh I think
that President Putin will not stop. So,
it's uh it's one conflict and the other
conflicts are coming up, Venezuela and
other things.
>> So, you don't think we're going to get a
peace agreement between Keev and Moscow?
>> I'm afraid that this takes very, very
long time, very, very long time. And
even President Trump says it can last
another year.
>> So, you're going to continuously sell
weapons into Ukraine. Then are you still
concerned about threats towards your
life given the fact that the US had
warned you and the company about a plot
that came from Moscow?
>> Look, this is now over a period of more
than two years and uh I as I said also
last year here I feel I feel very safe
but uh at the end of the day it's it's a
dangerous situation.
>> It feels like an existential risk right
now and you're hearing this increasingly
in some of the commentary from European
leaders. How much are you seeing
European leaders ramping up their orders
of a series of weapons to counteract an
increasing number of threats?
>> I think that Europe acts eur Europe
really really acts. What we are what we
have now is in this year the first year
by the way in 26 really to get money and
uh the the uh the the the first 100
billion uh of Germany. Yes. Was a very
very small peak. Now, now the big peak
is coming 800 billion investment. This
is huge for Europe and the industry is
acting because we build up the up the
capacities and as I said Ramatal is
building up 13 factories at the moment.
Yeah. In parallel. Never ever happened
before. So we do a lot. We act.
>> So how much are you expecting them to
ramp up? Because if you've got to get
ahead of the spending, how much do you
expect that spending to accelerate as
these threats do continue?
We we are uh we start very strong in 26
and we will be on a level uh in 2728
where we have a peak a peak production
and then we are really we're really good
in Europe.
>> So sales-wise you were looking for what
50 billion by 2030.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you think risk is skewed to the
upside now
>> given what's developed in the last few
weeks alone?
>> Look uh it's hard to get the 50 billion.
I'm very happy to make that happen
because it's a big number. Yeah. and um
but we are able to do it and I I had a
look over the last days uh over the
planning and we want to make it happen.
If it becomes more I'm happy.
>> Your stock has been flying over the last
12 months. It's up by more than 150% I
believe. This could get complicated for
how you run the business and I'd love
your assessment of things as a CEO. We
saw a number of comments come from the
president in the last week lashing out
at defense contractors here in the
United States who of course are making
more money as defense budgets continue
to climb. I just wonder as a CEO how you
look at that situation, how you manage
the business and think about the
prospect of capital returns at a time
where governments are boosting spending
and your stock is performing very well.
>> We have at the moment a good situation
that we book the business. We will book
uh this year uh only on the European
side around 80 billion euro which is
unbelievable for such a small company.
Yeah, we are still a company which makes
123 billion and 80 billion is for we
have to grow this is uh so therefore I'm
I'm very safe that the investment that
we are doing that these investments are
safe also for our investors and that the
the stock price has the ability to grow.
>> You have these joint ventures with
companies though like Loheed Martin.
Does it concern you about the
president's comments because they're an
American company that he would you know
potentially take aim that? Yeah, but I
still feel at the moment that the
relationship between the US uh uh
companies and Ramatal are very good. So
I have a very good relationship to
Northuk Braum and a very good
relationship to Lockit Martin and it's a
very trustful relationship. We built
together the fuse large for the F-35.
This is an international program. If we
stop all that things, we would stop also
the F-35 program. I think that the US
government will not do that. The Wall
Street Journal last year though did say
that you've irked executives at US
companies and there's been this
narrative that European defense
companies are protectionist. There's
this strategic autonomy debate. What do
you make of that?
>> I try to be a bridge builder. What I I
believe in the transatlantic
relationship and what I want is that uh
the United States and Europe will work
together. This is for me the most
important thing. We are lost if we
separate ourself. And um on the
industrial side, we can be a bridge
builder with our cooporation.
>> For a second, how do you work together?
And the president of United States says
he wants to go after Greenland. He'll
either do it the easy way or the hard
way.
>> Look, this is a political decision about
that. I'm an I'm an industrial uh chief
and uh on the political side uh it's
very hard to say and it would be easy he
has to discuss that for sure with the
chancellors or the presidents of Europe.
U I personally think that my personal
meaning is at the moment there are
better solutions uh to then than to have
this uh let me say to take over. A lot
of people are very worried about the
world and the situation of the
remilitarization of a lot of uh global
powers right now almost a pre-war type
of uh of positioning. I'm just wondering
how much competition there is to source
materials, metals, things that go into
some of the weaponry given the fact that
there is this massive race to
rearmament.
>> It's it's much more complicated than 5
years ago. Absolutely right. But what we
did is we made very early restocking. So
what we have is we really created
working capital that is huge billions
and billions. I invested more than seven
billion in working capital on top and uh
especially to be independent from China
with Chinese materials. Uh to be um uh
independent on the semiconductor side.
This is a point also a five years
contract with them. uh uh nitro
cellulose or other things for powder uh
um ammonium perchloride for for missiles
all that things you have to have a lot
in your stocks if you don't do that yeah
it's a very critical situation
>> are there places that you can go to get
some of these materials and places that
you can't go you were talking about for
example China linked semiconductors I'm
wondering in South America China has a
lot of controls for example over the
copper mines and the lithium and other
things that go into the key materials
are There sort of go zones and no-go
zones for you.
>> There are yeah there are independent
things and what we look at the moment as
an example uh we look for lintters in
Australia where China has not the lead
in this area or we look to Argentina
where also opportunities so we look for
that but we don't stop the relationship
with China. This is also very important
for me in that things. Yeah it makes no
sense to stop everything but if they
stop it we must be independent. Can we
just finish on the prospects for
consolidation? Is this the kind of
backdrop that makes it easier easier or
harder to make acquisitions?
>> Um, at the moment the acquisitions you
have to pay more money uh because the
defense business is really growing up.
Uh so you have to pay more money but uh
it makes sense and uh to do it and we as
Ryal we buy every year some companies
and uh um last year we bought the naval
business so we stepped into the
production of frig corvettes mind
sweepers etc etc so we want to grow our
business and we have our target and our
target is 50 billion and we want to
reach it
>> ammon it's good to see you thanks for
dropping by
>> we appreciate it sir thank you am
papicher there the rhymeal CEO following
a stunning rally in that stock over the
last 12 months and beyond. Let's give
you an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Let's
cross over to Vonnie Quinn for more. Hey
Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. So in Japan, Prime
Minister Sane Takichi is reportedly
planning to call a snap [music]
election. The news is seen as reviving
the so-called Takichi trade which has
weighed on government bonds and kept the
yen under pressure. The currency falling
to its weakest against the dollar in
[music] 18 months.
Meta plans to cut 10% of its reality
labs division as early as this week.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
move is part of a strategy to shift
funding away from some virtual reality
products and into other AI wearables.
[music] Reality Labs has about 15,000
employees and has been losing billions
of dollars each quarter.
And Black Rockck is also cutting
hundreds of jobs across the company,
trimming about 1% of its global
headcount. Sources tell us here at
Bloomberg, the reductions amount to
roughly 250 employees and include
members of its investment and sales
teams. The cuts come as CEO Larry Frink
works to rewire [music]
the world's largest asset manager and
push deeper into alternative
investments. That is your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Funny, thank you. More from Funny in the
next. Now, up next, an extraordinary
revolution.
We have a productivity revolution of
extraordinary proportion that we have an
economy that's growing at a quite robust
rate but we just don't need the people.
I don't think the story is ambiguous.
[music] I think the story is is quite
clear. We have a labor dynamic that is
tricky.
>> That conversation up next with Noria
Rabini of Rabini Macro Associates live
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Equities and your market
picture looks like this. Stocks this
morning down by a tenth of 1% down by
0.2 on the NASDAQ. on the Russell
[music] down by 0.1. In the bond market,
yields bleeding a little bit higher, but
the emphasis on a little. We're up by
two basis points on 10. Given what's
[music] happening in Japan, this move is
nothing. Japanese yields up by 8 to 10
basis points at the long end of the
curve on the prospects of a snap
election [music] in Japan sometime soon.
Under surveillance this morning, an
extraordinary revolution.
>> We have a productivity revolution of
extraordinary proportion. That we have
an economy that's growing at a quite
robust rate, but we just don't need the
people. We're just seeing a productivity
revolution. I mean, you break down the
numbers and you really look at it, it's
pretty extraordinary. And I think the
labor dynamic is quite quite
significant. On the back side of that, I
don't think the story is ambiguous. I
think the story is is quite clear. We
have a labor dynamic that is tricky. So,
here's the latest this morning. US
productivity accelerating at its fastest
pace in two years, fueling hopes for
further AIdriven gains. Noran Rabini is
the chairman of Rabini Macro Associates,
and he writes the following. The US
remains at the center of a
technologydriven positive supply shock
that raises growth and lowers inflation
over time. Nuriel joins us now for more.
Nuriel, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Great seeing you.
>> Fantastic to catch up with you, sir.
You're bullish, not just for the year
ahead, but through to 2030. Can you
flesh that out for us a little bit more?
>> Yes. I mean, everybody's talking about
AI and G AI, but this is only one of the
15 uh technologies of the future.
They're all related to AI, but is AI,
semiconductor, biomedical research,
quantum fusion, defense tech, fintech,
new material science, you name it. And
it's a race between uh US and China. I
don't think it's a zero sum game. US is
going to do well. China is going to do
well, but my estimate is that the US
potential growth is estimated today to
be only 1.8%
could be as high as 4% by the end of the
decade. And I've done a bit of a bottom
up analysis. And by the way, the data
and productivity after the GFC average
productivity between 2009 and 19 was
only 1%. Since 2019, in spite of the dip
during COVID has doubled to almost 2%,
1.9 in 2024 was 2.4%. And the number
from Q3 suggests was almost 5%. And by
the way, the Atlanta Fed no cast for Q4
GDP as today is 5.1%. probably is too
high but given that one and given the
job number you'll have another high
productivity growth now I don't think
the productivity growth is 4% or 5% but
there's definitely acceleration
>> jobs is key is it jobless growth
so-called jobless growth
>> yeah well is a jobless growth there are
three stories one is that the GDP number
are wrong and the GDP number are going
to be revised towards the weaker labor
numbers the other one is that no the GDP
growth is strong and you're going to
have some adjustment upward of the
revised data I think the Third
explanation is the more correct one. You
can have strong GDP growth and having
weak labor growth because we're having a
productivity revolution. If you're
looking for example at the revenue, real
revenue per worker of S&P 500 firms
since the launch of Chad GPT in November
2022, the average has increased for S&P
500 firms by 15% in the last three
years. So it's almost 5% per year. And
if you look at it by sector of course a
lot of it is closer to 20% in tech and
communication services but it's very
large also across the board. So both at
the micro data level S&P 500 firms and
the macro one number we are seeing a
productivity revolution already in the
numbers.
>> I'm kind of dealing with whiplash right
now because we just had the Ryan Mattel
CEO on defense sector in Europe booming
for all the wrong reasons. This idea
that he's more worried about the state
of the world than ever before. And here
Dr. Dr. Doom is coming on to tell us
about how productivity boom is going to
bring everything to a better place. Why
are you less concerned about this
overlay of rearmament and militarization
that is also coming in tandem with this
productivity boom?
>> Well, there are geopolitical risk in the
world and I'm aware of them. The
question is whether they're going to
have a significant economic and market
effect. Look at the biggest one. You had
a 12- day war between Israel and Iran
last June. uh oil price went up a little
bit, stock markets wobbled and then
given that Iran did not attack uh the
old facility of the Gulfies or block the
street of Hermos, it went away and that
was a big big deal. Venezuela, you know,
we can discuss it at length, but the
macro and market implication are close
to zero. It's just less than a million
barrels a day. Russia, Ukraine is a
mess, but it's not going to have a
impact on global market economy the way
it did in 2022. So the and US China they
are of course in a competitive strategic
competition but right now the trade
tension for all the reasons we know are
somehow limited. So every time there is
a geopolitical risk people say stuff
could happen but so far those that we
have seen the last few decades living
aside the 70s with the shocks of Yam
Kipur and the Islamic revolution have
not a market effect. Do you think though
that the United States is going to lose
some of its luster as an investment
haven in terms of the ongoing conflict
between the US and traditional allies
like Europe? I mean, have you seen
anything like that or do you think
that's overstated and productivity
really is going to rule the roost?
>> You know, I I've been saying since last
year that uh tech trumps tariffs because
I think that the upside coming from tech
is 200 basis points. Well, if you add
all the impacts of the bad
stipulationary policies of Trump, trade,
restrictions of migration, fiscal
deficit trying to affect the
independence of the Fed, rule of law,
the maximum from a empirical point of
view, it could be a negative 50 basis
points downside to potential growth. So
you have an upside of 200 from
technology, you have a downside of 50 is
a ratio of 4 to1. So tech trumps tariff.
So the stuff that is technology is first
order. Everything else including
geopolitics is second order. Is this why
the AI trade the market pretty much
shrugged off at independence yesterday
as a serious concern?
>> Um, you know, I I believe that, you
know, there is some fraudiness of course
in the AI sector, but uh if you talk to
all these companies, I think that they
would all argue that we are maybe at
worst five years away or at best three
years away from AGI, however you want to
define it. Now if we are achieving
artificial general intelligence the
valuation of the say of not every of the
max 7 is going to reach AGI but maybe
three or four will. So the value of a
firm that's going to be having AGI is
going to be 5x of its current value. So
that's the race. So if you think of it
this way yeah there is some fraudiness
there can be a correction but with US
growth at 2% for the last few decades
the average return on S&P 500 was 12%.
including dividends of the of NASDAQ was
16% and was with 2%. Suppose growth is
not two three let alone three and a half
four American exceptionalism has to
become even stronger because if it was
American exceptionalist with 1.8% 8%
growth with higher growth. It has to be
better than that on average. Now,
there'll be winners and losers both
within the publicly traded firms, old
economy versus new economy. And among
the startups, many of them are going to
go bust. But if you're looking at the
medium-term horizon with higher growth,
you're going to have higher returns. And
we're seeing based on the data on real
revenue growth for agree 500 firms that
most of those productivity gains are
gotten by the firms. Real wages are
growing less than productivity in labor
costs are falling. That's why there is
mallay there. That's why people are
worrying about affordability. But from a
profitability point of view, the
corporate sector is doing great.
>> It's a perfect framing of the last year
and maybe for the next several years.
Nurian, thank you sir. It's good to see
you as always. Thank you. Nuran Rabini
there of Rabini Macro Associates bullish
on growth in America through the next
several years
>> and a lot of it has to do with big tech
but also efficiencies in a host of other
industries. [music] Is it jobless? You
ask the key question and ultimately
maybe just not as jobful as it needs to
be to really keep everyone in a good
mood.
>> Up next on the program, Osen Quan of
Wells Fargo, Bloomberg's Herman Chan,
Tiffany Welding of Pimco, Lauren Goodwin
of New York [music] Life. The third hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
[music]
Equity investors care about corporate
earnings. The stocks are a little
overheated here going into earning
season.
>> We're risk right now as we start 2026.
>> The markets, I think, have correctly
gravitated to the positive fundamentals.
>> You're just going to have a more
sensitive market. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and Ann Marie
Hordern.
>> The beanie on the way out of the room.
I'll invite you to my next party, but
don't come.
>> I don't think anyone's ever said that to
me. I'll [music] invite you but don't
come.
>> And you know what?
>> You won't come because you're not a
during the week, go out kind of guy.
>> I'm not a go out kind of guy.
>> Period. Yeah.
>> But he could have just said I'll invite
you and you won't come. Yes.
>> But don't come has a different, you
know, I mean, you know, we'll dissect
that for the rest of the uh the week.
>> I'm taking offense from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Good
morning. Absolutely not. [laughter] The
third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
stats right now. Your scores look like
this. Equity futures on the S&P 500
negative by a tenth of 1%. On the
NASDAQ, we're down by 0.2. We've had
lots of earnings so far this morning.
We'll have more in the week to come. If
you turn to the bond market, yields
[music] bleeding a little bit higher.
Two tens up by a basis point or two.
Things could change at 8:30 Eastern
time. So about 29 minutes away, we'll
have CPI another read on inflation at a
time where it really feels like the door
is closing [music] for another interest
rate cut.
>> Certainly at the end of January after
the robust uh unemployment number that
we saw on Friday. I see a robust
unemployment number because the headline
number wasn't that great, but the
unemployment rate did come down. A
question about whether inflation could
potentially styy any potential chance of
a rate cut if inflation comes in greater
than expected. [music] A real focus on
the housing component given the fact
that it was 0% year-over-year or month
over month in the previous reading
because it was just [music] based on
estimates because government was shut
down. And I heard John Williams last
night, the New York bank president,
talking about the fact that he's not
that concerned with inflation going to
peak this year, then go back to Target
next year. He spoke to reporters after
giving this speech at CFR and talked
[music] about he doesn't see strong
pressure one way or another to do
anything. So it's kind of a look through
on January [music] and how difficult
does that become politically given the
fact that the Fed believes that they are
under siege basically from this
administration that it is [music] not
about the refurbishments going on about
the Fed but it's actually the president
trying to attack their independence and
on that front how [music] it relates to
inflation. He said the threat a threat
of Fed independence could lead to the
risk of quote quote unfortunate
consequences [music]
basically if it was to basically become
economic instability. City not looking
for an interest rate cut at the end of
this month. Morgan Stanley changed their
call as well. JP Morgan not looking for
any cuts for the year ahead. This
central bank is set up to wait and see
and [music] see what happens at 8:30
Eastern time. Morgan Stanley taking a
different view of things though. They're
expecting a disinflationary tailwind to
open up the door again to a rate cut at
the end of this year. And maybe that's
where things get a little bit more
interesting. Yeah, a jobless uh increase
in productivity also comes with less
inflation, which is part of the reason
why people do think there could be room
for more rate cuts. Looking forward
though, how much is this the risk
scenario for markets that could
potentially styy all of that optimism
that we keep hearing even from Dr. Doom,
[music] which we could potentially uh
you know get some sort of at least rate
staying where they are. The idea of JP
Morgan, what they're talking about, how
problematic would that be for equity
valuations?
>> How problematic is Rabini's call? Rabini
is bullish yes on growth on headline
growth but he is [music] not bullish on
jobs growth which presents its own
problem. So if you wanted to be bearish
about something there's something in the
mix there from Nuriel.
>> Well this is the reason why we're
focusing on populist policies so
significantly because ultimately as you
were saying so eloquently before that K
[music] shape does matter when it comes
to people who can elect politicians who
actually change the scenario. And what
you are seeing increasingly is that
K-shape persisting maybe not widening
but persisting in a significant way to
leave the confidence metrics
highlighting that there is a problem in
this country.
>> Equities right now negative by a tenth
of 1% coming off alltime highs on the
S&P 500. This hour we'll catch up with
Osen Quan of Wells Fargo as stocks trade
near records. Herman Chan of Bloomberg
Intelligence as JP Morgan tops estimates
and Tiffany Wilding of Pimco breaking
down the latest read on inflation. We
begin this hour with stocks flat as JP
Morgan and doubt to kick off earnings
season. Osen Kuan of Wells Fargo writing
the following. We believe some weakness
in 4Q will get a pass, but the outlook
has to be optimistic to justify the
recent rally. It's an earnings driven
market. Osen joins us now for more.
Osen, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Let's talk about why you believe
weakness will get a pass. Why?
>> Yeah, because we're about to see growth
in higher uh because of the tax return
that we're going to get. So on average,
we estimate about uh $4,000 per person
in tax return versus $3,000 last year.
So that's going to be pretty similar to
the overall economy. Uh and I think we
are about to see a a restocking cycle
happening, restocking of inventories
after the IPA tariff ruling that we're
probably going to get this week. I think
companies are waiting and seeing what's
going to happen there and start to
restock their inventories and that's
going to be pretty optimistic for uh the
cyclical upturn. So I hear rotation
broadening out continuing.
>> Yep. Yeah. We still like the reflation
trade uh in the first half of the year.
One thing that we highlighted this
morning uh that's really interesting is
the changing reaction function in the
equity market on higher rates. So higher
rates over the past three years has been
um magnificent 7 up and the Russell 2000
and the cyclical down. That's actually
starting to change recently that higher
rates has started to translate into
Russell 2000 actually outperforming the
Mac 7. I think there's two reasons. uh
number one I think the market's ex
interpretation of higher rates has
shifted from higher rates are
restrictive to cyclicals to higher rates
are being driven by the cyclical upturn
and number two because hyperscalers are
issuing so much debt they issued hundred
billion dollars just in Q4 and their
their sensitivity to rates is changing
because of that as well
>> so you don't see the rotation being
predicated on a Federal Reserve cutting
rates is that correct
>> yeah I mean I think I think the Fed Fed
cutting rates is also going to be
predicated on what happens to the
economy too. So if the Fed cuts fewer
times than what the market's pricing in
because the economy is good and because
we're starting to see the cyclical
upturn, I don't necessarily think that's
going to kill the reflation trade that
we're seeing.
>> This to me is a really interesting
theory given the fact that so many
people used to say that the rate cutting
cycle would be what drives the rotation
and now you're saying it's the economy
stupid in so many words that essentially
if the economy is good, cyclical are
going to outperform. If it's not good
and the Fed has to cut, they're not
going to outperform. It raises a
question of what kind of economic growth
we're looking for. To the point that
John was just making earlier and that
new Rio Rubini was making, if you do see
gains that are coming without uh without
accompanying jobs, how much does that
styy the ability for these cyclical
areas to outperform, particularly if
they cater to people who aren't
necessarily in the upper echelons of
income?
>> Yeah. So I I think that speaks to the
productivity gains that we are seeing
because of AI and I think AI is sort of
contributing to the K-shaped economy
that we're seeing. So the way I explain
AI economy is it's earnings up layups
up. It's great for corporates, it's
great for high income consumer who have
uh equities but not so much for the real
economy. And we have we have highlighted
that the multiplier effect of AI capex
to the real economy is actually lower
too than traditional capex. If you look
at how many construction jobs have been
created over the past two years and how
many construction jobs should have been
created based on the regression versus
construction spend, fewer jobs have
actually been created over the past two
years which and and over the past two
years it was all data centers which says
that you know data centers typically
create fewer jobs than traditional
construction. So I think the multiplier
effect is lower on AI capex as well. I
would love to also get a little bit more
of your thoughts about what's going on
with tariffs because we're going to get
the AIPA ruling potentially tomorrow
from the Supreme Court. You say there's
this restocking potential. Is this the
sweet spot? Potentially companies are
going to bring in more goods because the
administration is going to continue
tariffs just it's going to take them
potentially a lot more time to enact a
legal justification.
>> Yeah. I mean, if if you're from the
company's perspective, you know, what
happens to tariffs are going to matter
to your bottom line, right? So there's a
little bit of wait and see approach when
it comes to what happens to tariffs
before they start building inventories.
I don't necessarily think it's about
imports but also about manufacturing
stuff in the US as well. So just
building uh inventories overall.
>> But how does it change if the
administration just uses other legal
authorities? Doesn't the rates almost
stay pretty much the same?
>> Yeah. I mean I I think the overall
effective tariff rate is going to come
down. I think what the administration is
going to do is they're going to go after
the more strategic goods and critical
industries but sort of let the other
non-strategic uh sectors tariffs go and
I think that's going to bring bring down
the overall tariff rate which is going
to be positive for the bottom line.
>> Which piece of this argument do you not
think is consensus at the moment that is
not well known and well understood?
>> I think the reaction function that I
talked about uh higher rates being
meaning broadening out of the market I
think that's very out of consensus. Um
but also at the same time we've been
highlighting that earnings expectations
for Q4 is actually the bar is actually
pretty low. I mean we're going to see
the biggest deceleration uh in EPS
growth since 2022. Uh it's going to come
down from 13% to 8%. That's what
consensus is forecasting. Um and I think
people well understand that macro was
kind of sluggish in Q4. Uh and there are
some headwinds such as tougher comps
versus the year before and things like
that. So you know I think I think some
of the weakness is going to get
overlooked in Q4 but optimist uh the
outlook has to be optimistic for this
rally to continue appreciate your time
as always it's good to see you. Thank
you buddy. Thank you Osen Kwand there of
W Fargo looking ahead to earnings season
already heard from JP Morgan earlier on
this morning. You'll hear from City Bank
of America and Wells Fargo tomorrow.
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley on
Thursday. Some other news as well Lisa
in the financial space. Yeah, this just
crossing uh moments ago that US Bank is
planning to buy BTI for up to $1
billion. Details coming out. They put
out a press release, but just to
highlight how many bank mergers there
have been announced over the past 12 to
to uh to 36 months. Really, it's PNC and
First Bank, Columbia Banking System,
Pacific Premier, South Se State
Independent Bank, Atlantic Union. You
can go on and on and on with this roster
of banks that are taking advantage of a
regulatory environment that will allow
them to make mashups and where economies
of scale truly are important and
increasingly so in the banking sphere.
>> That stock is down by about 1.4%. Of
course, tracking the earnings from
earlier this morning as well. JP Morgan,
the media earnings call is taking place
right now. And getting a few comments
from Jamie Diamond on central bank
independence.
>> Yep. He jumped in when he was asked
about this question. As you can imagine,
credit cards and Fed independence were
top of the queue for this media call.
Jamie Diamond says, quote, "I do have
enormous respect for Jay Powell.
Everyone we know believes in Fed
independence. Anything that chips away
at the that is probably not a great
idea." So, a message to the
administration on this earnings call.
>> JP Morgan in the pre-market higher by
let's call it a quarter of 1% with an
update on the breaking news of the last
10 minutes or so and a whole lot more.
Let's get to your Bloomberg brief with
Vonyie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thanks. Yep. US Bank buying
BTIG for up to a billion dollars. The
deal is expected to close on the second
quarter of this year pending [music]
regulatory approvals. The BTIG
leadership team will join US Bankorp
with CEO Anton Loy [music] remaining in
position.
Meta is beginning to cut more than a
thousand jobs or 10% of its reality labs
division.
>> [music]
>> Sorzo is telling us here at Bloomberg
the move is part of a strategy to shift
funding away from some virtual reality
projects and into other AI wearables.
Reality Labs has about 15,000 employees
and has been losing billions of dollars
each quarter.
The first round of the NFL playoffs
wrapped up last night with the Houston
[music] Texans defeating the Pittsburgh
Steelers 30-6. It's the first road
playoff win in Texans franchise history.
On the other side, it was potentially
[music] the final game for 42-year-old
future Hall of Fame quarterback Aaron
Rogers as [music] he will once again hit
free agency. And that is your Bloomberg
beef. John.
>> Hey, Vonnie. Thank you. Appreciate it.
Up next, the Morning Calls plus Herman
Chan of Bloomberg Intelligence as JP
Morgan tops estimates [music] to kick
off earnings season. And there's a bit
of push back to some of the ideas coming
out of the White House on credit cards.
We'll get to that in just a moment. from
New York City. Good morning.
[music]
They have a good pulse on what's going
on in the US economy both from the
consumer and the corporate side and so
they can see the trends in their [music]
consumer business on delinquencies on
payment rates. They also see the demand
not only from consumers but from
corporates and so I think it is
representative it's a very good
representative of the health of the
economy. That was
>> J Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets joining
us following numbers from JP Morgan.
Decent numbers from the big bank ahead
of much more still to come for [music]
the week ahead. Equity futures on the
S&P 500 going into the opening bound
negative by a tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ
100. We're down by 0.2 [music] and a
Russell small caps negative by not even
a tenth of 1%. That's the price action.
Here are your morning calls. First up,
Wells Fargo raising its price target on
Royal Caribbean viewing any near-term
geopolitical concerns as a potential
buying opportunity. Your [music] second
call from City raising its target on
Northrup Grman expecting momentum to the
sector to continue. And finally, Key
Bank upgrading Intel to overweight,
anticipating outsized data center demand
from hyperscalers. The stock is up
[music] by more than 3% in the
pre-market. That's the latest on Intel
this morning. Let's get the latest on
banking as well. Numbers from JP Morgan
out a little bit earlier on this
morning. They're holding their media
call following a fourth quarter earnings
beat. Danny Burgerer is tracking the
story and has more. Hey Danny. Hey John,
I was just listening in to the earnings
call and the first question coming from
the media as you would expect was on
credit cards. Jeremy Barnum, the CFO,
took this one and answered it and
basically said he's not going to
quantify the hit to the business it
would be if you did have interest rates
capped at 10% for their credit card
business because there are so many
unknowns. They don't know how it
implemented. But he goes on to say for
an avoidance of doubt, if it were to
happen, it would be very bad for
consumers. it would be very bad for the
economy, saying that in this scenario,
if you do get rates capped at 10%, it
would just mean less credit available.
On and on, he hammers about the impact
to the economy, maybe trying to get the
ear of the president with that. He goes
on to say what it would mean for the
business. And he says, "It's a highly
competitive business. Under the
scenario, they'd have to significantly
change and cut back. It would be bad for
us. They would have to change and cut
back. John, this is a company, a JP
Morgan, that just added to their credit
card business with the purchase of the
Apple credit card. Another another
question came in around Jay Powell and
the independence of the Fed. This is a
question that Jamie Diamond took
himself. He said that he has enormous
respect for Jerome Powell, even though
he doesn't agree with all of his
decisions, saying everyone [snorts]
believes in Fed independence. Anything
that chips away at that is not a good
idea, and it would raise rates over
time. Just one final note on their call
that I thought was interesting had to do
with both the investment banking and
loan growth. We noted that slight miss
in investment banking. The CFO saying
they were disappointed in it, but they
think it's because most of the deals
have been pushed into 2026, so a little
bit lighter for the end of the year. And
then on loan growth, they talked about
non-banking financial institutions. That
is the private credit players and the
growth of credit there. specifically JP
Morgan's involvement in it because
despite all of JP Morgan and Jaime
Diamonds worrying about cockroaches,
they are participating in it more. They
say that nothing we do is riskless, but
it's a place where you are going to see
more activity there. They are saying
that they're being careful how they
approach it, but gi given the explosion
in things like data center financing,
but it is a point of concentration for
JP Morgan. John,
>> Danny, good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Looking forward to the
program a little bit later this morning
in about 40 minutes time. Danny Burgerer
there. The message from JP Morgan pretty
clear. If you get involved in our
business, if you curb our ability to
price risk properly, we'll just take
less. And that's a conversation so many
people were having coming into the new
trading week.
>> Yeah. Jeremy Barnum, the CFO of JP
Morgan coming out and saying that any
kind of plan to curb the fees they could
charge would mean that they would
significantly cut their card business.
He said it would be bad for consumers
and the economy as well as what Danny
Burgerer just said. There is a real
question here about them not quantifying
it because they seem they see it as so
infeasible so as to even begin to make
those calculations would simply be a
waste of time. Nonetheless, it does
highlight the push back you're getting
from that. I
>> believe the president speaks again a
little bit later on this afternoon. So
that's one to watch. You might hear it
again. And then tomorrow when you hear
from City, Bank of America, Fraser,
Moahan, Morgan, Stanley, Pick, Solomon
over at Goldman Sachs, not on the credit
card business for a few of those names,
but will you hear some push back from
them about some of the proposals, some
of the issues coming out of the White
House?
>> I imagine potentially on a number of
these proposals. The president basically
every single day has taken a populist
idea and put it out on truth social. We
have talked about not just credit cards
but also directly taking investments
into companies, deciding about CEO pay,
making sure that if you're getting some
sort of benefit from the US government
like a defense contractor or what does
that mean for buybacks and dividends? I
imagine a lot of these issues are going
to come up on these calls and most
especially what these bank CEOs think
about the subpoena that was handed to
Jay Powell.
>> Herman Chan joins us now from Bloomberg.
He joins us around the table. Herman,
good morning. It's good to see you.
Let's just start with the numbers. your
initial takeaway from looking at what JP
Morgan delivered?
>> Yeah, solid earnings beat uh highlighted
by a really good strength in the markets
and trading activity. Slight
underperformance in investment banking,
but as Danny alluded to, a lot of deals
were pushed out. We have seasonality in
the fourth quarter where things
typically slow down. So, we're not uh
reading too much into that.
>> Lisa noted that too, when we get the
other banks to report tomorrow and again
on Thursday, you expecting to see a
similar thing? Yeah, I would say maybe
markets will not be as robust across the
group versus what JP Morgan uh posted.
So that's going to be a high bar for
others to meet, but overall we think um
investment banking will be solid.
>> You know, I want to just lean into that
invest investment banking aspect. The
idea that deals were pushed given the
fact that people were expecting such a
robust final quarter,
>> right?
>> What happened?
>> Yeah, I I think there's a few things you
you have your typical fourth quarter
quarter season alley where things just
shut down a little bit. Um there are
also the government shutdown, right? So
the SEC was closed for a bit of time. So
some of the the paperwork that needs to
go through for an IPO, for example, may
have been pushed out in the first
quarter. So those are things that we're
not too concerned about, but
nonetheless, it did affect the fourth
quarter numbers.
>> And we are seeing a number of
announcements early this year in terms
of mergers, etc. And you tie in JP
Morgan's incredible results with the
announcement that US Bank Corp is buying
BTI. I wonder how much this is a shot
across the bow. Get bigger. If you want
to succeed, you need to get bigger.
Whether you're regional, whether you're
anyone else, is JP Morgan's gain.
Everybody else's pain unless they bulk
up.
>> Yeah, I think that's that's what you're
seeing. You're seeing an emergence of
scale is great. And you're a lot of the
regional banks like a PNC, as a Fifth
Third, as a Huntington are really doing
bank deals to to get that scale to
become a more national player in the
United States. And then for US Bank with
the BTIG deal really bolsters their
capital markets activity. They're more
known right now as a fixed income
trading shop and and fixed income
underwriting shop to really support
their corporate banking business, but
this really broadens out their capital
markets capabilities.
>> Taking a step back, how difficult is for
banks right now to really deal with the
Trump administration?
>> The world feels very gray. They're happy
about things like this M&A deregulation,
but on the other hand, more populist
ideas coming from the Oval Office. Yeah,
that's right. There there's a bit of a
ying and yang effect, right? So, the
markets generally has been pretty
optimistic about banks over the past
three months or so, we've had really
strong outperformance for financials and
banks in particular, but then uh
yesterday, you know, yesterday and over
the weekend, the news from President
Trump and his tweet, you know, really
goes to show that there's a lot of
mercurial aspects w with how the
administration really operates. So,
there's going to be some puts and takes.
Uh the the card cap is not helpful. Um
so we'll see what comes down the pike uh
for for president down the year over the
years but uh overall economy solid
deregulation is great and a benefit for
banks and you've seen the increased M&A
activity.
>> The JP Morgan CFO doesn't want to
quantify what a 10% interest rate cap
would be. What would it mean for JP
Morgan? It
>> it's hard to say. There's a lot of puts
and takes how much they they cut their
their balances. What they do with you
know maybe jacking up fees and
retaliation for for the rate cap. So
then we tried to quantum it maybe like a
you know rough estimates maybe a
potential 15% hit to earnings if if we
had to guess for JP Morgan but again
it's a moving target there's lots of uh
ways that things could move.
>> Can we finish on costs?
>> Yeah.
>> Who's hiring right now?
>> Yeah not a lot. Right. So we've seen uh
headcount for for a large banks pretty
much flat year-over-year. Um a lot of
it's due to productivity gains. AI is
really driving down the need for a lot
of the back office folks. So, you've
seen banks take out um the the back
office folks and really focus on the
producers and and that's going to be
ongoing.
>> Do you think this is what the AI story
is going to look like? They're just
going to keep things flat
>> and they're just going to keep on
growing instead of seeing these big
headlines that are laying off thousands
and thousands of people because of AI.
>> Yeah, that's right. um there's going to
be some some potential pruning of your
of your headcount um as as AI gets more
ubiquitous and and you see it
proliferate across you know areas like
for Bank of America example they talked
about their Erica platform and h how
it's reduced the need for a lot of folks
because people just self-s serve with
with um with that self-service
>> that's going to come with its own
problems in the next few years you might
not see the flashy headlines we're
laying off loads of people but still
you're not hiring even as you're growing
tons great for shareholders
I'm not sure about the political
backdrop.
>> Last year, I think two years ago, uh
Brian Moyahan was talking to us about
this and said that that's how you would
see it. Not necessarily a mass layoffs,
but each individual would be that much
more productive and would generate that
much more in terms of income. How does
this get handled? This is really going
to be the key question. What do you do
with growth that comes without jobs?
>> You cap interest rates on credit cards.
>> You see those kind of policies, you like
I'm being snarky, I know, but they're
the kind of policies you'll see coming
out of administrations in the future.
>> Yeah. Which is the reason why I'm
actually curious to see whether there's
anything feasible that can be proposed
that actually will have the effect that
they're trying to make rather than just
pushing people to buy now pay later
types of lenders.
>> Herman, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Thanks for dropping by. Herman Chan
there of Bloomberg Intelligence. Coming
up on the program, the inflation data
just around the corner. We'll catch up
with Tiffany Wilding of PIMCO to break
down the numbers and work out if the
door is still open or not to an interest
[music] rate cut later this month. Based
on recent communication from the core of
the Fed, including the New York Fed
President John Williams, it looks like
that door is firmly shut. That date is
just around the corner. Equity futures
on the S&P 500 into the opening about 1
hour away. Negative by [music] a tenth
of 1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ down by
0.2 See,
[music]
the opening bout is 60 minutes away.
Inflation data about 20 seconds away.
Equity futures into that. Your scores
look like this. Positive by a tenth of
1% or rather negative. We're down by two
ten of 1% on the NASDAQ 100. In the bond
market, twos, [music] tens, 30s, yields
a little bit higher off the back of
developments in Japan where yields are a
whole lot higher on the prospect of snap
elections [music] there. Yields higher
here by only a single basis point on a
10-year on a 30-year up by a basis point
to 484.
The [music] economic data just crossing.
Let's cross over to Mike McKe for more.
Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, we have a
little bit of a low surprise on the
monthly numbers and a uh little bit of a
exact number on the month uh the
year-over-year CPI monthly up 3/10en of
a percent. Remember, there were no o
October numbers, so the November numbers
didn't get into this as a
month-over-month thing, but the 3/10en
translates into 2.7% year-over-year.
Core comes in at 2/10 gain. Uh that
translates to a 2.6% year-over-year
number. There were some expectations we
would see a bigger rise in some of these
numbers because of the uh government
shutdown and the way things were put
together for October and November, but
it looks like we didn't have any kind of
major snapback. I'll take a look at uh
where the numbers moved uh while you
look at how the markets.
>> Well, let's get to it. Mike, thanks for
that. That downside surprise on core
CPI, great news, fantastic news, and
maybe the door slightly a jar for an
interest rate cut at the end of this
month. We'll have that debate in just a
moment. Push it through the bond market.
Very clear what happened here. Yields
were higher. Now they're lower down by
three basis points at the front end of
the curve. Still around 350. 10. Still
rangebound, but yields dropping off the
back of this. We're down a basis point
to 416. In foreign exchange, you'd
expect the dollar to be weaker. It is.
Euro dollar 11667. That currency pair
just about unchanged now on the session.
And if you look at equities, equities
get a lift. They were slightly negative,
softer down, and now they're positive by
two ten of 1% on the S&P. On the Nasdaq
up by 0.2. So the right kind of downside
surprise. score CPI a little bit lower
than expected
>> and frankly this fits with what we're
seeing more broadly which is frankly a
jobless recovery. We keep talking about
this. You're not seeing a massive
increase in hiring but you are seeing uh
inflation come in at the same time that
small business optimism earlier this
morning actually increased and that real
average hourly earnings rose 1.1% versus
the 0.9% in the prior reading. So this
paints a positive picture that both
increases growth while not necessarily
having the inflationary overlay that
would styy the Fed from cutting rates at
some point this year. Maybe not this
month, but at some point this year.
>> Let's give that positive picture some
more oxygen. So this came from City
ahead of the print. Andrew Henhorse and
the team said, "Yes, inflation is still
running above target, but we expect
shelter and goods inflation to cool this
year, bringing monthly annualized
inflation close to target by the end of
26." Yeah, and a lot of people who are
in the housing market would confirm that
and saying that rents have actually gone
down year-over-year in a number of
locations that the way that they
calculate owner's equivalent rent is uh
unique and raises some questions. Look,
this all paints a picture of
disinflation. Still though,
year-over-year we're talking about 2.7%
core CPI 2.6%. So, still above that 2%
but maybe not enough above. And the fact
that it's on the right trajectory
downward might give a little bit of uh
oomph to the doves on the on the
committee.
>> Closer to three than to two right there
with you. But some better news when you
get a downside surprise at 0.2 on core
month over month against an estimate of
0.3. Mike McKe still with us. Mike, as
you look at that downside surprise,
which is certainly what this market is
trading on, what's behind it? Well, it
looks at this point uh like uh a lot of
it has to do with gasoline prices down a
half percent on the month. Most other
categories seem to be up although uh we
did see a uh drop of 1.1% for used cars.
Uh that was somewhat predicted. The
interesting thing is housing as you were
talking about because there was a
feeling that uh the lack of October data
would depress the housing numbers and
keep them depressed. But we see uh the
uh owner's equivalent rent come in by uh
3/10en gain. That's up a little bit. And
uh rent itself up 4/10 on the month. Uh
lodging away from home is one of the
biggest movers. Hotels up 3 and a half%
that looks like it's incorporating some
distortion from the uh government
shutdown and apparel up 610 of a
percent. That's not a surprise. is there
was an anticipation that the November
numbers have been depressed by
discounting for Black Friday. So we
would see a rebound and that's one area
in which we do see a rebound. Goods
prices were flat on the month. Services
prices up 3/10en. So all in all a fairly
contained report, but we do have to
caution that because of the shutdown
there are going to be distortions in
this data and we'll have to figure out
uh which of these numbers are the most
distorted. Mike McKe, just before you
go, what do you make of the argument we
hear on Wall Street? I want to talk
about shelter specifically that because
of the way they measure inflation,
they're missing the story that
ultimately there's a strong tailwind,
disinflationary tailwind for the year
ahead on shelter. Well, there was a
feeling that we were going to see that
more of that in these numbers because of
the way they calculate things. Uh we do
know it's distorted. it didn't uh really
show up this month and it's not clear
that the tailwind is going to continue
because we still don't know what people
are going to respond to in terms of
mortgage rates and we're still not
seeing a lot of houses built. We get new
home sales and uh new home construction
coming up at 10:00 and we'll see if
there's any progress made there. That
was it's an October number but it's the
latest that we're going to have.
>> M appreciate the update. Thank you sir.
Tiffany Welding of Pimco joined us now
for more. Tiffany, welcome to the
program. would love your view on one,
the data we just got, but two, the
outlook for inflation. Is there a better
story to tell?
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, it sounds like it
was a very mixed bag as as Mike McKe
just described. Um, you know, it seems
like the the softer than um expected
numbers came really from the good side.
Um, and even on the good side, it was it
was very much a mixed picture. So, you
have um tariff related pass through
that's happening um at a very uneven
pace depending on industry. So you had
electronic products uh you know that
appeared prices were down quite a bit
but other things like apparel were up.
Um so it's a pretty it looks like a
pretty confusing number quite frankly
you know and on top of that you did have
government related uh distortions
because of the shutdown you know so I
think the Fed will have to parse through
this you know the way that we read the
uh you know the tea leaves more recently
is that after 75 basis points of cuts
that they've implemented uh in the
second half of 2025 they're much closer
to neutral. They're on the higher end of
their own range, estimated range for
neutral. Um and and as a result of that
with the labor market stable, they um
they're pretty comfortable pausing here
to just get more information and see
what happens.
>> It was quite a confusing number is an
evergreen statement for the past 12
months and probably the next 12 months
of data that we're about to get.
Tiffany, I just wonder when do you think
that we will get a number that is not
confusing that gives us a little bit
more information given the fact that
this is a muddied economy with slow
hire, slow fire, the idea that maybe
you're getting disinflation, you're not
getting a jobs recovery, but at the same
time you're getting growth.
>> Yeah. Um Yeah. Uh I mean so I do think
that you know we we've heard from from
various um you know companies and and
other industry sources that the holiday
shopping season was was going to be a
key season where they were trying to
hold prices um you know maybe even um
you know elevate discounts in order to
gain market share and then um more
potential tariff pass through would be
likely uh in the first part of next
year. You know we also had an inventory
story. You had a bunch of of stocking
ahead of tariffs. you know, companies
were holding higher inventories. Um, you
know, and some of that was probably
getting them through the holiday season.
So, I think it's really going to be a
little bit of a test, um, you know,
early next year, you know, to see how
companies react to this new regime. You
know, the other part of this, of course,
is that we have a a a Supreme Court
decision coming out that will have
implications for tariffs. The
administration has talked about
rebuilding the current regime even if
the Supreme Court strikes down uh, you
know, the tariffs on on legal issues. So
that adds a wrinkle to this. Um you know
and then the final thing that um you
know will have material implications is
that we do have offsetting fiscal
stimulus that's coming. This will be one
of the biggest refund tax seasons um in
in recent memory. So the economy overall
doing strong. There are winners and
losers under the surface. Um you know
and and on top of that we are getting
some fiscal stimulus. So we'll have to
see how inflation evolves amid all those
factors we think early next year. Which
sector of the economy, excuse me, which
sector of the economy, Tiffany, do you
think is going to drive inflation given
the fact that people don't think it's
going to come from housing? And so far,
it hasn't really come from
manufacturing.
>> Yeah. Well, so I I I mean, I think that
the labor market as well is is not
really a place that you're seeing
inflationary pressures. Um it's it's
really it's really the wealth effect
right now that appears to be driving um
you know elevated domestic demand, more
resilient consumption than I think
anyone was expecting. Um you know we're
tracking consumption growth in the the
second half of the year you know 2 and
a.5% when and that's at a time when you
have real label real labor income growth
at one. So you're clearly getting a
wealth effect here that's keeping demand
elevated. um you know so that appears to
be the source of of demand and and some
potential inflationary pressures you
know and just how that comes out in the
data um again it's a winners and losers
economy and that that should be
reflected in the CPI as well the housing
side has been a relative loser here it
does look like to us that rents will
moderate um you know quite dramatically
we we think they could be below a
preandemic trend u but on the other side
of that you you are still getting some
of this tariff related pass through
that's keeping core goods elevated
you know that should peak uh in the
first part of this year and and moderate
thereafter but but in the meantime we
are we are still getting it.
>> Given this latest data do you think it
opens the door for the Fed maybe not to
cut but to be dovish?
>> Um I mean I think that the Fed will um
you know I think I think they certainly
will um you know they will uh they they
they will say that inflation um you know
does has looked better than expected and
I think I think that's absolutely right.
um you know so with that um you know I
think there's certainly reason for them
to have an outlook of continued interest
rate cuts towards their estimates of of
neutral. So I think the conversation uh
you know from Federal Reserve officials
is throughout this year is really going
to shift from you know where do we think
neutral interest rate policy really is
at this point. Um you know I think post
you know after the tariff related price
adjustments happen you know underlying
inflation you know does look pretty good
here. Um and so when you have inflation
that's getting close to target um and a
labor market that's stable, you know,
you really need to think about where is
neutral policy. So that's the
conversation we think they'll be having
in 2026.
>> Tiffany, thank you. Always appreciate
hearing from you. Tiffany Welding there
of Pimco on the latest inflation data.
That small downside surprise on Core CPI
getting our attention. Moving markets as
well, albeit some small moves. Yields
were higher by about a basis point on a
10-year now slightly lower. We're seeing
that across the curve. equities a little
bit positive as well on the S&P 500 off
the back of that economic data just to
stay on top of the economy and for that
matter on this inflation data as well.
Later on this afternoon, you'll hear
from the president of the United States
continuing his push for an affordability
push down in Washington DC. He's going
to deliver a speech at the Detroit
Economic Club later on this afternoon.
Blueber's Tyler Kendall has a preview
for us. Hey Tyler.
>> Yeah. Hey John. Well, on the heels of
the CPI report, I'd expect President
Trump to refocus the narrative on the
economy in a critical battleground
state. Not just with his speech to the
Economic Club in Detroit, but he's also
set to tour a Ford Motors factory plant
where they make F-150s in a bid to tout
his domestic manufacturing push and his
more protectionist policies like tariffs
in a place that's seeing a mixed
economic situation. Michigan is one of
the states with the one of the highest
unemployment rates in the country while
also witnessing a shrinking labor force
according to data. So this is a
president that's probably going to put
more of a focus on his more populous
messaging and that slew of policies that
we've seen in recent days. Those
proposals including a cap on credit card
interest rates, banning institutional
investors from buying single family
homes. and then his post yesterday
saying he's working to ensure big tech
companies don't drive up electricity
cost for consumers amid the AI boom.
This is President Trump's third domestic
visit to a battleground since early
December as a age try to get him to
refocus on the domestic after what was a
week where we saw geopolitics headlines
really dominate. Now, a person familiar
with the White House's thinking says
that there has been frustration within
the administration that they weren't
sensitive early on to the cost of living
issues amid what has been sagging
polling for the president on the
economy. John, in a uh sign that there
has been this refocusing. Last night,
Senator Elizabeth Warren told us on
Balance of Power that President Trump
called her directly to talk about
affordability and that that was the only
issue that they discussed. May Mali in
the oval was a clue. It was a clue.
Tyler Kendall down in Washington. Tyler,
thank you. Some push back against some
of these proposals already this morning.
This came from the CFO over at JP
Morgan, Jeremy Barnum. If it were to
happen, I'm talking about a cap on
interest rate cuts to credit cards. It
would be very bad for consumers, very
bad for the economy. Mike Apert of
Morgan Stanley and the team, they
published on this as well. We expect the
negative effects of less access to
credit from a 10% cap could outweigh
benefits from lower monthly payments,
resulting in a hit to consumer spending.
Low credit score consumers would be most
affected.
>> I asked my teenager last night, "What
would happen if you couldn't charge as
much to lend to somebody who couldn't
pay you back?" He said, "I wouldn't lend
to them." Guess what? That's exactly
what it is. uh and what you see from
Jeremy Barnum, the CFO of JP Morgan,
also coming out and saying that
everything is on the table pushing back
against what he called weekly supported
directives to radically change our
business. So definitely the knives are
out if this proposal starts getting
legs. Last year when Bernie Sanders and
Josh Holly introduced this, the Wall
Street Journal editorial board came out
in a piece and they said all of you that
were against Kla Harris when she wanted
to put price caps when it comes to
groceries. Yeah.
>> Econ 101. You put a cap on something,
you get less of it. Something else.
Roger Marshall, the senator, because
President Trump last night said you
should look at his bill credit card
competition act. That's been circulating
even more than the 10%. That is
something that potentially can get steam
as well. And that's to do with swipe
fees. So I think there is momentum even
if it's not as big as we're the
president wants. There could be momentum
for this year to get something done when
it comes to credit cards.
>> Look, it comes from a good place. People
are struggling, but bad ideas often come
from good places and you see that all
the time. And I think a lot of people
would suggest this is a bad idea.
>> I would like to see some good ideas. I
mean truly and I'm not I'm just saying
in general. I mean I think that this
considering that this is such a big
issue with the K-shaped economy. I will
say one thing that JP Morgan said was
that they're not seeing deterioration
anywhere across the income spectrums.
That said, there clearly is an issue
that does need to be addressed with good
ideas. So, let's hear them.
>> JP Morgan did not back away from this,
did they? And I wonder if Bank of
America does tomorrow, City, Wells
Fargo, or is there something special
about the seauite of JP Morgan that just
leads them to engage in these kind of
conversations?
>> I think the answer is yes and yes. I
think that they have to address it given
the fact that Croup is actually much
more leverage to some of these credit
card fees than even JP Morgan. But yes,
JP Morgan has a a a nice position being
able to speak with remark direct
remarkable directives.
>> All they really need to do is say the
president is talking about an aim. We'd
love to discuss this with him, but it's
not law and until it it's law. We are
not changing anything. Next question.
>> You can do marketing at JP Morgan now.
You know, I'll be over at Delta sorting
the lounges out.
>> I'll be sitting here crying. Where are
they?
>> You're going to Delta tomorrow.
[laughter]
>> Yeah, exactly. Delta Airlines interview
at Bastion and Lisa tomorrow morning
8:15 Eastern time. Don't miss that.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Vonyie Quinn. Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Recapping the data
we just got. Core inflation data for
December coming in cooler than expected
with consumer prices rising 2.6%
compared to estimates for 2.7%. [music]
Overall CPI figures show prices up 2.7%
year-over-year in [music] line with
expectations.
Donald Trump vowing to impose a 25%
tariff on goods from any country doing
business with Iran. The president
posting on Truth Social the new duty is
quote effective immediately. The move
could disrupt major US trading
relationships with countries including
India, Turkey, and China.
City Group is set to cut about a
thousand jobs this week as part of CEO
Jane Frasier's push to control costs and
boost [music] returns. sources telling
us here at Bloomberg, the bank is making
the cuts as part of a plan to eliminate
20,000 jobs [music] this year. City set
to report its full year results on
Wednesday. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate it.
Thanks for this morning. Up next, we'll
catch up with Lauren Goodwin of New York
Life as investors digest the latest read
on inflation. Plus, Jihara has your
morning movers from New York. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
It looks like a pretty confusing number
quite [music] frankly, you know, and on
top of that, you did have government
related uh distortions because of the
shutdown, you know. So, I think the Fed
will have to parse through this. You
know, the way that we read the uh you
know, the tea leaves more recently is
that after 75 basis points of cuts that
they've implemented uh in the second
half of 2025, they're much closer to
neutral. They're on the higher end of
their own range. They're pretty
comfortable pausing here to just get
more information and see what happens.
>> That was the latest from Tiffany Wild of
Pimco following inflation data out just
moments ago. Core CPI coming in a bit
softer than expected. Equities up off
the back of that, but the move doesn't
really stick. On the S&P 500, we're just
about unchanged on the NASDAQ.
>> [music]
>> up by let's call it a tenth of 1% as we
count you down to the cash open about 39
minutes away. Let's get you some single
names some morning [music] movers. Yhara
has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. The market's really punishing
Delta this morning. Shares are down 4 a
12% after [music] its fullear 2026
profit outlook came in below estimates
as did its free cash flow. So the
skepticism around the outlook is
dragging down other airline stocks
included including United and American.
[music] Meanwhile, moving on to the
other big earnings story, and that is JP
Morgan. Shares have been all over the
place this morning, but now just turned
in the red as the earnings call
continues. [music]
The biggest headline so far is the CFO
saying that everything is on the table
to fight President Trump's call for a
10% [music] cap on credit card rates.
And we end on M&A. In the banking
sector, we are seeing US Bank Corp
shares falling [music] 1% after it said
it is buying brokerage BTI for $1
billion. We saw a lot of bank M&A back
in 2025 [music] and it looks like we're
starting 2026 off with some more action.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Let's turn back to the data. Lauren
Goodwin of New York Life writing this.
The US economy is in a foot race between
inflation and hopefullity. Inflation
data will take center stage once again.
Lauren joins us now for more. Lauren,
good morning. Good to see you.
>> Hey, good morning.
>> Can we park the labor market concerns
now? Is the focus switching back?
>> Um, I think the focus is switching back
in part because of the news that broke
over the weekend. the the investing
public has been so lucky that over the
past several months the Fed's two sides
of its mandate didn't matter a whole lot
that that debate because we were above
neutral as they get closer to neutral
and these concerns about Fed
independence come up then the interplay
of that data is going to be so much
trickier and I think inflation becomes a
big part of the story again. Do you
think that on the margins, and this is a
big if, uh, if the data is confusing, as
we just heard from Tiffany Wilding, that
Fed officials will be less likely to cut
rates because of the political overlay
right now?
>> It's hard to say. I think the Fed will
try really hard not to be political in
either direction. But yeah, that's my
best guess is that if the data is
confusing, at least here in these next
couple of months as as sort of legal
matters get sorted out, that they'll air
on the side of let's not touch this.
Again, the when we look at outside of
the labor market and inflation, other
indicators that would push the Fed in
one direction or the other are pretty
constructive. Financial conditions are
are quite loose. Earnings expectations
are good and really it's it's it's only
the labor market impacted by a bunch of
structural factors that looks weak at
all. This is a pretty robust economy.
>> Only the labor market is sort of a a big
big cause considering the fact that, you
know, consumption is driven by people
who have jobs and they need to have a
paycheck in order to go out and spend.
And it just raises this issue of can you
see that rotation, the outperformance of
the rest of the S&P beyond uh big tech
if you don't get a jobs recovery in more
significant way.
>> I think that you can because from our
perspective, if we expect good earnings
this year and street consensus estimates
around 15% earnings growth, even the
more conservative folks like ourselves,
10 to 12% earnings growth, that's a
pretty good year. It's very difficult to
see mass layoffs or a real deterioration
of the labor market when you have
earnings that are that constructive. And
so that is a backdrop where I think we
can see some broadening in the market.
And I will say for the last 5 years I
have not been on the side of broadening.
I have not been on the side of small
caps. But I do anticipate that this
quarter we will continue to see some
broadening and rotation in that
direction.
>> What changed do you think? What's
changed for you?
>> Um it's just it it's it's a little bit
of everything. Um, but if I were to put
it down to one thing, I'll put aside
earnings. I'll put aside the Fed that
still I think is biased to to cut a
couple of times this year, if not more.
At the end of the day, we are in an
election year and all of the noise
around all of the policy prescriptions
or ideas that have put been put out
might be disruptive in our markets land,
but they are about supporting the
economy. And when that is your
zeitgeist, I think it's very difficult
to be bearish.
>> Lauren, good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Lauren Goodwin there of New
York Life. That take at the end there.
That comment very important with regards
to what happens this afternoon. The
president of the United States speaking
in Detroit.
>> Exactly. I was thinking as she's talking
about, well, we're going to get a lot
more of those ideas coming out later
today when the president speaks. We're
13 days into January and I have a whole
list of populist ideas as we gear
towards the midterm election.
>> Kind of crazy, isn't it? We're talking
about GDP growth of three 4%, earnings
growth double digits and yet we're
concerned about the labor market still.
That's the world we're in. It's quite
unique. Well, people aren't able to get
a job so easily if they lose their jobs.
And this is a huge existential fear at
the same time that you have a lot of
people who still are feeling the effects
of year-over-year inflation. And that
has been the issue facing us in a lot of
these consumers consumer surveys that
President Trump will be speaking to
later this afternoon in
>> Looking forward to your chat tomorrow as
well with Ed Bastion. No doubt that's
going to feature inequality too.
>> Yeah. And how well right now they're uh
more leverage to the upper end of the K
so they're in better shape
>> big time. Check that out tomorrow
alongside Aaron Canada Clear Harbor, the
former White House trade official Kate
Kukit, Alexman of Barclays. You will
hear from the Delta Airlines CEO Ed
Bastion.